We are a world leader in particle accelerator
technology. We design, produce and market
innovative solutions for the diagnosis and treatment
of cancer and other serious illnesses, and for
industrial applications such as the sterilization
of medical devices.
Around the world, thousands of hospitals use
particle accelerators and dosimetry equipment
designed, produced, maintained and upgraded
by IBA, making our mission to protect, enhance
and save lives true.
IBA
world leader
Our life-driven mission and the open relationships
we have built with our customers and partners
over time, together with our innovative mindset
and our willingness to always strive for technological
and scientific progress, make IBA a unique scientific
company. We are characterized by a deep human
connection that is illustrated by: Life, Science.
Through our four core activities: Industrial
Solutions, RadioPharma Solutions, Proton Therapy
and Dosimetry, we offer health care professionals
the solutions that allow them to take a fully integrated
approach to their patient care.
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
Our customers
and their patients:
we develop the most effective
technology for our customers so
they can provide the best available
diagnosis and treatment for their
patients.
Our
employees:
we offer them quality jobs in a
stimulating, friendly environment
guided by ethical values.
Our
society:
we promote a sustainable
entrepreneurial business model
that serves society while respec
ting the limits of our planet.
Our
planet:
we continually work to address and
reduce the environmental impact
of our products and operations.
Our
shareholders:
we show that we are
worthy of their trust by being
a sound financial investment
and acting in accordance
with our values.
How do we work?
At IBA, we believe business has the mission to be a force
for good, through creating shared and long-term value
for all stakeholders.
Our company is a Certified B Corporation (B Corp)TM.
Why do we do it?
TO PROTECT, ENHANCE
For over thirty years, we have placed the purpose
of the company and our project at the heart of
our activities, as expressed in our mission to
“Protect, Enhance and Save Lives”.
All our activities are targeted towards the same
objective of making a positive impact on people’s
health by providing health care professionals with
the most effective and accurate solutions for
diagnosis and treatment, as well as safe solutions
for sterilization. This goal is implemented in different ways
that benefit each of the different stakeholders involved.
In today’s global and increasingly volatile economy, we
have demonstrated flexibility, adaptability and resilience.
These are fundamental to the continued success
of our business activities.
We continue to focus on quality and innovation
and, thanks to excellent sales in our businesses
(Proton Therapy, Dosimetry, Industrial Solutions
and RadioPharma Solutions), we are managing an
increasingly larger installed base and are, as a result,
focusing more on service and upgrades.
Patients / Clients
Shareholders
Employees
Society
Planet
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
We care about the well-being of our clients
and patients, our employees, our society, our
planet and our shareholders.
CARE
We share our ideas and expertise with our
stakeholders to create better results.
SHARE
We implement our mission to protect,
enhance and save lives through ethical
standards and transparency to remain worthy
of our stakeholders’ trust.
BE FAIR
Creativity, innovation and passion are
mandatory for a company that continually
stretches the frontiers of technology. Day after
day, we dare to create better results.
DARE
OUR
values
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
130,000+
patients treated
on IBA PT equipment
Million EUR revenues
nationalities
B Corp 114
certified score 2024
42%
proton therapy market share
business
activities
12%
of turnover
invested in R&D
continents
PT centers
sold
proton therapy
service contracts
countries
1,986
employees
670+
accelerators sold
IBA in 2023
at a glance
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA delivered a solid performance in the second half
of 2023, resulting in a positive recurring earnings
before interest and taxes (REBIT) margin for the full
year, as anticipated. Industrial and RadioPharma
Solutions business units have had a particularly
strong year, with revenues growing more than 50%
and a significant increase in REBIT driven by high
order intake over the past few years and accelerated
backlog conversion. Dosimetry performance was
also strong, with growth in sales and REBIT, and
the Services business continuing to perform well
across the group. This, while Proton Therapy’s
performance has been affected by significant
investments into the future growth of the business
alongside some delays in backlog conversion.
MESSAGE
from Olivier Legrain
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
IBA continued to progress on its four strategic sustainability streams using its B
Corp certification as a tool to operationalize a stakeholder approach. The company
implemented eco-design practices and launched research on environmental
applications of electron-beam technology, in particular in solutions to capture forever
chemicals (PFAs). A new reverse logistics process was also deployed in the US that
decreased logistics CO2 emissions by 96%. Alongside this, IBA completed its B Corp
recertification in april 2024 with a score of 114 points, making a significant progress
along our sustainability journey. In early 2024, IBA also launched Oncia Community,
a public utility foundation focused on supporting access to holistic cancer care,
alongside high-quality cancer treatments. The foundation has been established
with the support of industrial partners and various European cancer care centers.
Looking ahead, IBA remains focused on keeping its supply chain moving and accelerating
backlog conversion. Alongside this, investment is important for the business and will
be executed with an agile and targeted approach. And, as we continue to drive growth,
I’m pleased to announce Henri de Romre’s appointment as Deputy CEO, where he will
focus on future opportunities and performance in the Other Accelerators business.
Despite the current geopolitical situation and economic uncertainties,
we have a clear visibility on our future performance, and we are confident in our
ability to grow in the years to come and create value for all our stakeholders.
Assuming a stabilization of global supply chain challenges, a return of inflation
to around 3%, as access conditions to certain regions normalize, and based
on the prospect of maintaining a high level of order intake, we have issued medium
term guidance. Subject to these factors, we confirm our expectation that the annual
revenue growth rate should reach an average of 15% over the 2022-2026 period.
We project a recurring earnings before interest and taxes (REBIT) equivalent to about
10% of total sales by 2026, progressively delivered and weighted after 2024, as current
macroeconomic effects fade and operational leverage accelerates with volume. Finally,
we expect capital expenditures (CAPEX) of EUR 10 to 12 million per year until 2026
to support infrastructure development, innovation, sustainability, and digitization,
to maintain IBA’s cutting-edge offer and foster its future growth.
Following the results of the 2023 fiscal year, the Board of Directors intends
to recommend to the Annual General Meeting the payment of a gross
dividend of EUR 0.17 per share in 2024. If approved, the annual bonus paid
to employees will be established at the same level as the dividend, in accordance with
the company’s initiative to share the value created with all its stakeholders equitably.
Olivier Legrain
Chief Executive Officer
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
By providing innovative and high-quality solutions, IBA aims to support patients throughout their journey.
As such, our mission to protect, enhance and save lives takes them from diagnosis with radiopharmaceuticals
to treatment by particle beam therapy, and includes sterilization of medical equipment for safer operations
and quality control of equipment.
Sterilization
Diagnosis
Industrial Solutions is the world leader
in electron and proton accelerators.
Its comprehensive solutions are available
for meaningful applications such as medical
devices sterilization, food pasteurization,
property enhancement for various materials, etc.
Its pioneering E-beam and X-ray technologies
enable the medical industry to be significantly
more environment-friendly by avoiding toxic
chemicals and radioactive materials, and their
associated waste and hazards.
IBA is the worldwide technology leader
in the field of proton therapy. Proton therapy
is considered to be one of the most advanced
forms of radiotherapy in cancer treatments using
ionizing rays. Thanks to the unique properties
of protons, tumors can be targeted more
accurately. In effect, protons deposit the majority
of their energy in a controlled zone, limiting
exposure of the surrounding healthy tissues
to potentially harmful radiation.
RadioPharma Solutions develops products that
are used for producing isotopes and radio-
pharmaceuticals, vital for use in cancer diagnosis,
as well as in the cardiology and neurology fields.
We assist hospitals and radiopharmaceutical
product distribution centers by helping them
design, build and operate their radiopharmacy
units.
The Dosimetry business offers hospitals a
comprehensive range of Quality assurance tools
and software, for example, for the calibration
and control of their radiotherapy and radiology
equipment. This technology is crucial to ensure
that the prescribed dose is delivered within
a precisely defined area of the patient’s body.
Precision and control are vital to patient safety
and proper dose administration.
Treatment
Quality assurance
what makes our heart beat
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
03 Treatment
ProteusONE
04 Quality assurance
01 Sterilization
02 Diagnosis
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
Solution powered by the iconic RhodotronONE machine, MANY possibilities
Protect, enhance and save
lives by contributing to MORE
DEVICE STERILIZATION.
IBA is the world leader in electron-based irradiation
solutions for industrial applications. E-beam
and X-ray irradiation can be used in a wide range
of applications, such as food ionization or polymer
cross-linking. However, IBA is more than ever
focused on the medical device sterilization market.
Since almost a decade, this market is in a very
favorable trend, mainly due to organically increasing
volumes and increasing scrutiny and scarcity of the
two dominant established technologies: Gamma and
ethylene oxide.
After an exceptional year in 2022, driven by COVID
impacts and marked by an increased demand
for integrated E-beam and X-ray solutions,
the market experienced a soft landing in 2023,
requiring IBA to adapt to the evolving landscape.
Nevertheless, the market continues to expand
on the long term, and this situation has neither
reduced nor slowed down the interest in E-beam
and X-ray solutions, but rather prompted IBA
to further develop and enhance its products offerings
and customer service.
To capture this long-term trend, IBA has developed
a new portfolio of services and end-to-end
solutions powered by the iconic Rhodotron.
Industrial
solutions
These solutions allow in-house customers
or contract sterilizers to sterilize medical devices
either by E-beam in boxes or X-ray in pallets,
or both. They also offer an environmentally-friendly
and readily available alternative to toxic chemicals
such as ethylene oxide and nuclear materials such
as cobalt 60.
Because it is ingrained in its DNA and because medical
device sterilization is already well-established, IBA
leverages its technological expertise to disrupt
other key applications such as food irradiation
and environmental applications.
Every initiative pursued prioritizes customers
as the focal point of its vision. In line with this
philosophy, IBA has established a new Customer
Success team dedicated to delivering optimal
service and attention to its clients.
Furthermore, in a bid to enhance proximity to its
existing customer base, IBA has bolstered its regional
presence in the United States by quadrupling local
resources. This expansion aims to ensure superior
support for customers at every phase of their journey
with IBA.
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
MAKING MORE ECO-RESPONSIBLE
SOLUTIONS: A DAILY MISSION
The Rhodotron electric accelerator is the most
environmentally-friendly option as it avoids the use
of toxic chemicals and radioactive materials, as well
as the pollution and hazards associated with them.
And yet, IBA’s ambition is to go even further. IBA is now
deploying more resources and investigating further options
to ensure that the entire solution offered is part of a more
eco-responsible approach.
Coupled with the latest technologies in terms of green energy
production, increased efficiency of the ionization process,
recovery of fatal calories, co-generation, numerical modelling,
digitalization, and product handling developed for the logistics
industry, irradiation can be further optimized to reduce the total
ecological footprint of the sterilization industry compared to
other established technologies.
In addition to enhancing its current equipments and solutions,
like the so-called “variable scan”, introducing innovative
scanning techniques to simplify and broaden access to X-ray
technology, and collaborating with its partner TRAD to develop
the new Monte Carlo radiation treatment module, IBA has
clearly positioned itself as a driving force in the deployment
of emerging technologies for food ionization and environmental
applications such as wastewater treatment and PFAS:
IBA co-organized the International Food Ionizing Processing
Symposium (IFIS) held in Texas, United States, in September
With more than 100 participants, the success of the
event has demonstrated the strength and interest of food
ionization worldwide and has underlined the real need to forge
valuable connections to drive future collaborations and help
make advancements in this field.
By leveraging high-powered ionizing technology,
IBA is also actively investing in tangible solutions for
environmental remediation, supported by ongoing
experiments yielding promising initial results and plans
for larger-scale demonstrations. IBA demonstrates that
E-beam can be used for cleaner soils, air and water.
A NEW EXPERIENCE, A JOURNEY TOGETHER,
A RELATIONSHIP FOR LIFE: BEYOND™
Initially focused on the development of performant electron
accelerators, IBA is now focusing on developing a wide range
of services and products to serve the irradiation industry. Along
with the iconic Rhodotron, prospects and customers are now
supported from their first idea to the operation of an efficient,
profitable and sustainable ionization facility. This customer
experience is named BEYONDTM.
In the BEYOND™ experience, customers can rely on digital
tools to model and optimize their product design, their future
process, and model their center’s performance from day one.
As an example, IBA and TRAD, a French company specialized
in radiation modelling, are collaborating to bring numerical
simulation to a wide range of medical device manufacturers
and service centers. This type of tools can potentially save
months of product testing and tons of CO2 during production.
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
BEYOND™, FOUR END-TO-END SOLUTIONS
THAT REFLECT CUSTOMERS’ AMBITION
BE-EFFICIENT
The solution that takes advantage of the Rhodotron power
and high-end conveying solutions to treat large volumes
with the highest efficiency.
BE SOFT
The ideal solution to process fragile and high-value products
that require handling with care.
BE-WIDE
The unique solution to irradiate pallets with X-rays with
the guarantee of reaching an optimal Dose Uniformity Ratio.
BE-FLEX
The solution for multi-purpose centers that provides
the advantage of having a unique Rhodotron to produce
either E-beam or X-rays, with different energies in one or several
treatment rooms.
Customers can also test their products while being trained
at its partner site Aerial in Strasbourg, France, which is
equipped with a Rhodotron and all ionization modalities.
In addition, all prospects and customers are welcome
to experience and be trained on irradiation in its new academy
and user experience center, the INDUX, based in Louvain-
la-Neuve, Belgium.
To continue raising the bar and augment its offering, IBA
increased the span of services it offers for an even more
integrated irradiation facility. Prospects can now start
their projects with a so-called “pre-engineering”, opt for
a customized service for production ramp-up and training,
and even choose financing and leasing options.
Beyond is an experience we live together trough the whole journey.
Idea
START
BEYOND
Definition
Evaluation
Finance
Design
Installation
Care
Start
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
to experience substantial growth, estimated at 5-7 times
their current levels over the same period. Electron beam
and X-ray irradiation offer competitive alternatives to ethylene
oxide and Gamma irradiation. Both techniques are electricity
based and do not present major regulation issues. Powered
by green energy, both are very sustainable over more than 30
years of usage.
Moreover, this transformation is being facilitated by increased
accessibility, ease of use, and reliability of the technology,
prompting major players in the sector to invest more heavily
in in-house resources.
THE RISE OF X-RAY
Since the 1990s, IBA has been the pioneer of X-ray irradiation
and until 2020, only one reference site in Switzerland was
operational around the world. X-ray technology is now seeing
a faster acceptance and utilization in all regions of the world.
Several new sites were commissioned in 2023, and more than
15 new sites will be available to customers from 2027. X-ray is
recognized by major sterilizers and manufacturers as the safest
technology to handle the volume growth, both for businesses
and for patients.
Thanks to its ambitious R&D program, which was started
in 2010, the Rhodotron based X-ray solutions are recognized
as the most high-performing and sustainable product in the field.
An IBA X-ray facility can treat up to 100,000 pallets and run 24/7
with a limited number of operators and only a few days of servicing
per year. Through strong digitalization and sustainability
programs, this performance will continue to advance and lead
the market in the coming years.
In 2023, IBA has introduced a new level of X-Ray integration
and automation, including robotize quality control.
X-Ray represents today around 50% of the activity
of IBA Industrial.
GETTING READY FOR THE FUTURE
In 2023, digitalization emerged as a pivotal focus area, marked
by the initiation of several projects that have already yielded
notable successes. These include:
A comprehensive overhaul and vertical integration
of Beagle, an intelligent control system designed
to streamline operations within the irradiation facility.
The introduction of Be-In, an innovative Customer Portal aimed
at empowering customers with digital tools to enhance their
daily operations, bolster system availability, and provide
remote visual insights into machine parameters.
Implementation of the IBA Technical Support Center (TSC)
along with IBA RadioPharma Solutions and Proton Therapy.
The TSC serves as an intelligent knowledge repository
facilitating efficient knowledge sharing, accelerating
troubleshooting processes, and fostering autonomy in
problem-solving endeavors.
E-BEAM AND X-RAY IRRADIATION IS
RECOGNIZED AS THE SAFEST TECHNOLOGY
TO HANDLE THE GROWTH OF THE MEDICAL
The medical device industry has a wide range of products that
enable patient diagnosis and treatment. Within this large multi-
segment industry, Disposal Medical Devices (DMD) include all
single-use devices e.g., surgical gloves, dialysis tubes, diabetes
patches, orthopedic implants, syringes, etc.
The medical device sterilization market is projected
to double within the next decade. Additionally, there is
a notable shift occurring in the distribution of sterilization
methods. Previously dominated by ethylene oxide
and Gamma technologies, the landscape is now
transitioning towards a more equitable distribution.
In particular, technologies such as E-beam and X-ray,
where IBA holds a leadership position, are expected
Today
In 10 years
Service
(~40%)
Service
(~60%)
ETO
(~40%)
ETO
(~60%)
Gamma
(~25%)
Gamma
(~35%)
EB & XR
(~35%)
EB & XR
(~5%)
+7%/year
In-House
(~60%)
In-House
(~40%)
~3,000 MCi
~1,500 MCi
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
Until recently, reference sites for X-ray and electron beam
industrial sterilization were mostly concentrated in central
Europe. Today, IBA Industrial sees a strong deployment of the
technology in all regions of the world, with remarkable activity
in the United States, Southeast Asia and China. IBA is currently
deploying a stronger regionalization plan in those areas where it
is already present, including adding resources for installations
and services, hubs for parts logistics, and third-party suppliers.
As indicated above, 2023 marked a major turning point in
the deployment of X-ray, mainly in the United States, with
several systems under final commissioning. The end of
the year was also marked by the sale of a new in-house X-ray
system in the United States which also reflects the changing
needs of the market.
The growing interest in X-ray technology in China is also
becoming more and more obvious. The Chinese market is today
dominated by scattered ethyle oxide centers and more than
one hundred Gamma centers. A recent symposium on X-Ray,
organized by IBA with industry players in China, confirmed that
industry and in-house players are ready to adopt IBA technology
for a more controllable and sustainable future.
CHC provides healthcare medical solutions across Taiwan, China and South Asia.
Our journey began with IBA’s Proton Therapy team, leaders in the field, as we
established our Proton Therapy center. We later discovered the benefits of IBA
Industrial for disposable medical device sterilization and food applications.
Realizing the absence of X-ray irradiation services in Taiwan, we decided
to introduce this technology. IBA’s system, offering both E-beam for medical
devices and X-ray for food applications, was crucial for us. Taiwan is also
famous for its semiconductor industry, and we believe that E-beam
technology can provide favorable results for those products.
With E-beam and X-ray treatments, we can offer faster
and better solutions to our customers. We’re proud to be
the first globally with this dual-modality configuration,
located strategically in central Taiwan. Our partnership
with IBA’s Proton Therapy, Dosimetry, and Industrial
Business Units has been enriching. They’re an innovative
company, and we have proudly collaborated with them.
Michael Lee, Managing Director at CHC Healthcare Group
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
INCREASES THE CHANCES OF SURVIVAL
3 million undiagnosed cases of childhood cancer.
A modeling study published in The Lancet Oncology1
projected cancer incidence for 200 countries
worldwide and suggested that the number
of undiagnosed cases of childhood cancer could
account for more than half of the total in Africa,
south-central Asia and the islands of the Pacific.
In North America and Europe, by contrast, only 3%
of cases are undiagnosed. If there is no improvement,
the authors of the study estimated that more than
3 million new cases of childhood cancer would
be missed between 2015 and 2030.
Zachary J Ward, MPH, Jennifer M Yeh, PhD, Nickhill Bhakta, MD, A Lindsay
Frazier, MD, Prof Rifat Atun, FRCP, Estimating the total incidence of global
childhood cancer: a simulation-based analysis.
26 February 2019. https://www.thelancet.com/journals/ lanonc/article/
PIIS1470-2045(18)30909-4/fulltext
Protect, enhance and save
lives by contributing to
IBA leverages its extensive knowledge to assist
hospitals and radiopharmaceutical distribution
centers in two primary ways: by helping them produce
radioisotopes in-house and by offering end-to-end
solutions that cover everything from project design
to facility operation.
Its product range includes advanced production
equipments like cyclotron solutions, targetry
systems, synthesizers, control systems, and more.
Moreover, IBA has gained considerable expertise
in establishing cGMP radiopharmaceutical
production centers.
RadioPharma
Solutions
IntegraLabONE
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
https://gco.iarc.fr/today/data/factsheets/cancers/39-All-cancers-fact-sheet.pdf
https://www.cancerresearchuk.org/about-cancer/cancer-symptoms/why-is-early-diagnosis-important
The IBA CycloneKEY cyclotron plays an important role in
making Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging more
widely available worldwide by enabling the production of key
medical isotopes used for this imaging technology.
PET imaging is a highly effective medical imaging technique
that uses radiotracers to produce detailed images of organs and
tissues in the body. It is used in the diagnosis and treatment of a
wide range of medical conditions, including cancer, neurological
disorders, and cardiovascular disease.
CycloneKEY is giving the opportunity
to anyone, anywhere in the word to get
access to PET cyclotron technology
and PET imaging.
It’s also very interesting for inhouse
production because the local hospital
will not depend on the big suppliers
of radio-pharmaceuticals.
Muhammed Sarfaraz Mirza,
Business Line Manager,
Attieh Medico –Saudi Arabia
Watch the video: IBA CycloneKey -
F-18 access granted!
World Health Organization1 (WHO) figures from 2022
indicate that 10 million people die from cancer each
year, and yet patients’ lives and chances of survival are
significantly improved if the cancer is detected early.
In fact, a cancer diagnosed at an earlier stage is more likely
to be treated successfully, resulting in a higher likelihood
of survival, reduction of morbidity and lower cost of care.
Cancer Research UK2 confirmed that the average cancer
survival rate for the 8 most common cancers amongst patients
with stage 1 cancer is 90%. However, the survival rate plummets
to just 5% when the patient is diagnosed as having stage
4 cancer.
In light of these findings, and in keeping with its mission
to protect, enhance and save lives, IBA is committed to making
cancer diagnosis more accessible around the world by working
on several levels:
By reducing the size of the radiopharmacy where
the radiopharmaceutical tracers for cancer diagnosis
are produced. The IntegraLabONE solution is the most
compact radiopharmacy solution on the market, facilitating
installation and reducing the building cost.
By increasing the cyclotron production capacity for the
production of isotopes in the radioactive tracers, IBA’s
CycloneKIUBE cyclotron offers the highest production
capacity enabling increased diagnostic capabilities.
By offering adjustable production solutions, the Cyclone
KIUBE produces the widest range of radioisotopes, enabling
it to produce fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG, the most commonly
used radiopharmaceutical for cancer diagnosis), Gallium-68
for the diagnosis of neuroendocrine tumors, and Copper-64
for a more accurate diagnosis of prostate cancer.
CycloneKEY
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
PET Cardiology Diagnostic
In cardiology, a Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan of the
heart is a non-invasive nuclear imaging test using radioactive
tracers. It is used to diagnose coronary artery disease and
damage following a heart attack. PET scans are also used to
define the best therapy treatment.
In 2023, IBA launched AKURACY, a fully integrated solution
that combines PET production equipment with a streamlined
production process of 13N-ammonia, one of the most
recognized radiotracers in cardiac imaging institutes
worldwide. The system is a single button solution making it
a convenient and efficient tool for on-demand production.
It is designed to be operated by a trained technologist, with a
ready-to-use ammonia dose produced approximately every
ten minutes, resulting in a higher daily patient throughput and
a better return-on-investment.
Cardiac PET imaging can be very useful
for the management of many patients
with suspected or known heart disease.
Cardiac PET imaging is increasingly used
as new centers are established and
clinical guidelines incorporate cardiac PET
imaging into the management algorithms.
Terrence D. Ruddy,
MD, FRCPC, FACC, FAHA, FCCS Professor of
Medicine and Radiology, University of Ottawa,
Director of Nuclear Cardiology, University of Ottawa
Heart Institute
CycloneKEY
Watch the production
presentation video
However, the use of PET imaging is limited by the availability
of radiotracers, which require the production of medical
isotopes. The IBA CycloneKEY cyclotron addresses this issue
by providing a compact and efficient system for the production
of FDG, commonly used in PET imaging.
The CycloneKEY’s compact size and advanced automation
features make it ideal for small to medium-sized
radiopharmacies and research institutions, which can
use the system to produce their own radiotracers locally.
This reduces the need for long-distance transportation of
radiotracers, which can be expensive and time-consuming,
and enables PET imaging to be more widely available
in remote areas or regions where access to radio-
pharmaceuticals may be limited.
Overall, the IBA CycloneKEY cyclotron helps make
PET imaging more widely available worldwide by
facilitating local production of medical isotopes and
reducing the logistical challenges associated with the
transportation of radiotracers. This can help improve patient
care by allowing more patients to have access to the benefits
of PET imaging.
Major technological breakthroughs were achieved in the
diagnosis of coronary heart disease through PET. IBA’s 70MeV
cyclotron enables the production of Rubidium-82, while the
CycloneKIUBE produces 13N-Ammonia — both are used for
non-invasive myocardial perfusion tests.
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
A COMBINATION OF DIAGNOSIS AND
THERAPY: THERANOSTICS
Radiotheranostics is a type of cancer treatment that combines
diagnostic imaging with targeted radiation therapy. It involves
the use of radiopharmaceuticals, which are compounds that
contain both a radioactive isotope and a targeting molecule.
These radiopharmaceuticals are injected into the patient’s
bloodstream and travel to cancer cells, where they can be
detected using imaging techniques such as PET or SPECT.
Once the cancer cells have been identified, the same
radiopharmaceutical can be used to deliver a targeted dose
of radiation to the cancer cells, killing them while sparing
healthy tissues.
Radiotheranostics is a promising approach to cancer care
because it allows for the personalized treatment of individual
patients based on the specific characteristics of their cancer
cells. This means that patients may experience fewer side
effects and better treatment outcomes compared to traditional
cancer treatments. Additionally, radiotheranostics can be used
to treat a wide range of cancers, including neuroendocrine
tumors, prostate cancer, and certain types of breast cancer.
Overall, radiotheranostics represents a promising avenue for
cancer care that is gaining increasing attention from health
care professionals and researchers alike.
As more research is conducted in this area, it is expected
that radiotheranostics will continue to play an important role
in the fight against cancer.
This theranostic principle has acquired greater importance in
personalized medicine in recent years, particularly in oncology,
where advanced tumors can potentially be treated effectively
with low side effects.
CycloneIKON
In 2021, IBA introduced its new high energy and high-capacity
cyclotron, the CycloneIKON, which offers the largest energy
spectrum for PET and SPECT isotopes from 13 MeV to 30 MeV.
Currently, there are still a large number of patients for whom
cancer treatment fails, despite major scientific advances.
Nuclear medicine is emerging as a relevant modality to address
this gap by extending overall survival and quality of life for
cancer patients. Theranostics and targeted therapies allow
the administration of radiation directly to the targeted cells,
with minimal toxic side effects to surrounding healthy cells,
unlike traditional modalities. The growing number of clinical
trials (200+) and ongoing increase of new radiotherapeutic
molecule developments support the great potential of
radioligand therapy.
To enable this revolution, we must enhance the availability of
novel isotopes and boost their production capacity. The cyclotron
must play its part as a reliable and sustainable production
source of isotopes for the radiopharmaceutical industry.
This is particularly the case for Germanium-68 (used for
Germanium-68/Gallium-68 generators), Iodine-123 and other
radioisotopes such as Copper-64, for which the demand has
been consistently expanding year after year.
Watch the video:
IBA new CycloneIKON.
IBA has been a trusted partner
of Curium for a long time.
We selected IBA for its globally
recognized expertise and due to
the outstanding capabilities and
reliability of the Cyclotron.
Renaud Dehareng,
CEO of Curium Pharma
CycloneIKON
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
PanTera’s use of actinium-225 is part of its broader mission
to bring innovative and effective cancer treatments
to patients around the world. By leveraging the expertise
of IBA and SCK CEN in radiopharmaceutical development
and nuclear medicine, the joint-venture is well positioned
to develop innovative therapies that can enhance
cancer patients’ quality of life.
PANTERA
A BETTER FIGHT FOR LIFE
PanTera is a joint-venture created by IBA and the Belgian
Nuclear Research Centre SCK CEN, focusing on the development
and commercialization of radiopharmaceuticals for cancer
diagnosis and therapy. One of its key areas of research is the use
of actinium-225, a radioactive isotope that has shown promise
in the treatment of several types of cancer. Actinium-225 emits
alpha particles, which are highly effective at killing cancer cells
while sparing healthy tissues. PanTera is working on developing
actinium-225-based radiopharmaceuticals to treat a variety
of cancers, including prostate cancer and multiple myeloma.
The Oncidium Foundation is a non-profit organization
dedicated to advancing access to radioligand therapies
in underprivileged communities worldwide through
various initiatives, including educational programs, the
creation of a worldwide community focused on supporting
patients and the support of research programs.
More information on Oncidium:
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
Makbule Tambas et al, Radiotherapy
and Oncology https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
radonc.2020.07.056
Source: PTCOG
One of the initiatives IBA Proton Therapy is currently
supporting is the “PROTECTTrial”. The PROTECT Trial
is a large-scale, multi-institutional, randomized
controlled clinical trial in conjunction with 19 industry
and academic partners. The consortium conducts
trials in esophageal cancer with the aim of improving
access to proton therapy for patients, whilst validating
a model-based approach for the use of proton therapy
treatment in cancer more broadly. The research project
comprises 12 proton therapy centers across eight
countries and is coordinated by Professor Cai Grau from
Aarhus University in Denmark. IBA offers its expertise
in proton therapy solutions, with six centers using
IBA technology involved in the trial. A total of
approximately 400 patients are expected to be included
in the randomized trial with study completion planned
for 2027.
It is hoped that the trial will produce high-quality data,
which will contribute towards the creation of European
guidelines on the use of proton therapy for esophageal
cancer.
More information: https://protecttrial.eu/
340,000 patients treated with PT worldwide
at the end of 20232
340,000 patients
Protect, enhance and save
lives by contributing to
Proton therapy is one of the most advanced forms
of radiation therapy and a valuable treatment
modality for thousands of women, men and children
who are diagnosed with cancer.
Proton therapy aims to destroy cancer cells by
delivering proton beams to a target tumor. Protons
release the maximum energy within the tumor target
area while limiting the radiation to the surrounding
healthy tissues. This is not the case for photon
radiotherapy, the most common type of radiation
currently used in cancer therapy.
Moreover, proton therapy can potentially improve
local control through dose escalation while limiting
side effects and long-term complications. As a
consequence, this may enhance the outcome
of the treatment and patients’ quality of life1.
Proton Therapy
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA is the world leader in
proton therapy
IBA is the world leader in proton therapy with IBA customers
having treated more than half of all the proton therapy patients
treated on commercial systems.
The company has been a leader in proton therapy development
for the last 30 years and has built the largest user community
worldwide. IBA offers maximum uptime rates and can install
a system in less than 12 months.
IBA PROTON THERAPY CENTERS AT END OF
2023 – LARGEST NETWORK & EXPERIENCE
IBA continued to strengthen its market leadership in 2023 with
the sale of several proton therapy systems: two ProteusONE
systems to be delivered at the Sourasky Medical Center
in Tel Aviv, Israel, one ProteusONE equipment to be supplied
to the Wielkopolskie Centrum Onkologii in Poznan, Poland
and a ProteusPLUS system to be supplied by IBA’s Partner CGN
to the West China Hospital in Chengdu, China.
34 ProteusPLUS Centers
41 ProteusONE Centers
Market share in rooms (end 2023)
ProteusONE and ProteusPLUS are brand names of Proteus 235.
IBA also demonstrated its long-term
commitment to its partners, having
entered a contract with its first proton
therapy system customer, for a total
system restoration, bringing the
latest proton therapy technologies
to a center installed 25 years ago.
Anthony Zietman,
Chief of Radiation Oncology, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Boston, United States
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
Join the CAMPUS platform :
campus-iba.com
Campus, the most knowledgeable proton therapy community
WHAT IS CAMPUS?
IBA is fully committed to Proton Therapy for more than
30 years. The Company has come a long way to get where
it is today: at the top of the proton therapy market.
Yet, IBA could never have achieved this on its own.
Everything it has accomplished is the result of the strong
relationships it has built with its unique community. Because
turning the world into one that is cancer-free requires a great
deal of collaboration, knowledge sharing and joint research.
Campus aims to bring this collaboration to the next level.
It’s a place where experts, academia, researchers and
entrepreneurs from all over the world have the opportunity
to share knowledge with each other, and find the information
they need at every stage of their proton therapy journey.
Campus is a tangible community, which meets and interacts
in real life. The Campus platform is also a single repository
centralizing a large amount of accumulated knowledge
and expertise.
The campus community is built on 3 pillars:
Learn to expand your skills
Share by collaborating with your peers
Excel to maximize your center’s performance
Whether you are a newcomer willing to accelerate your
learning curve, an experienced user looking to develop new
expertise, or the most eminent expert keen on sharing your
knowledge or expanding your research, the Campus platform
is made for you. Campus it is a place where proton therapy
resources are shared, covering a wide variety of topics. At the
end of 2023, 436 summaries of scientific articles and more
than 90 webinars were available on the platform. Content is
easily searchable and continuously updated.
IBA stands committed to advancing
proton therapy education, from
project inception and well into
the decades ahead.
Aurlien Jongen,
Clinical Education Manager
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
Keep everything but cancer
with ProteusONE
CREATING THE FUTURE FOR IBA CUSTOMERS
Proton therapy is an essential tool of precision medicine in
cancer treatment, and ProteusONE makes this pioneering
treatment more accessible than ever before. By adding proton
therapy to their center’s services, cancer centers can grow and
innovate alongside other leaders in this field and advance their
possibilities to help even more eligible patients.
ProteusONE can be augmented through smart expansions
whenever patient demand grows. It is also designed to be
compatible with upcoming proton therapy innovations,
futureproofing centers for years to come.
THE MOST VERSATILE SYSTEM ON THE MARKET
From routine to research, ProteusONE’s high modularity allows
customers to select the best configuration for their center, and
gives physicians the flexibility to choose the best treatment
option for their patients.
Physicians gain access to all the clinical benefits of Intensity
Modulated Proton Therapy (IMPT) with Pencil Beam Scanning
(PBS) with no compromise on patient treatment.
In addition, ProteusONE’s unmatched interoperability allows
a flexible choice of ancillary partners.* The system can also
evolve to ensure short, mid and long-term value for patients,
staff and the center.
Proteus has been inspired by everyday clinical practice.
Through day-to-day interactions with the community, IBA
is perfectly positioned to understand, and invest in, users’
needs. These investments are directly translated into benefits
for patients. The ProteusONE design enhances the patient
experience by fostering a soothing environment while making
the medical staff’s daily practice safe and easier.
SUPPORT & SERVICES
With the largest proton therapy installed base, IBA has built a
strong and reliable service team to guarantee the availability of
its proton therapy technology and consistently achieve system
uptime. IBA provides support teams, parts, and processes
to provide full system operation and maintenance services
while guaranteeing the highest performance standards on its
state-of-the-art technology.
IBA understands that in order to start, maintain and grow a
proton therapy center, cancer centers need an experienced
partner who is there for them every step of the way.
Its services provide the necessary expertise, confidence,
training and support to ensure proton therapy centers are
successful from the very beginning.
ProteusONE is an expandable solution, and allows for maximal evolutivity both when
expanding services or when upgrading existing systems.
It’s delightful to see a young patient’s
reaction when they walk into the room.
It doesn’t look like a typical exam room.
It looks more like a fun place where
kids go to play. For our therapists, it
makes the room a calmer and more
enjoyable place to work.
Dennis Varghese,
Chief Therapist, University of Kansas Cancer
Center, United States
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
DynamicARC is a registered brand of IBA’s Proton ARC irradiation solution currently
under development phase.
Ding et al, International Journal of Radiation Oncology Biology Physics 2016 (http://
dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijrobp.2016.08.049)
Data on file
ConformalFLAsH is a registered brand of IBA’s Proton FLASH irradiation solution
currently under research and development phase.
Diffenderfer E. et Al.; The Current State of Pre-Clinical Proton FLASH Radiation
and Future Directions; Medical Physics; 2021
Bourhis J. et Al.; Clinical translation of FLASH radiotherapy, Why and how?,
Radiotherapy and Oncology; 2019
Source: Internal IBA Models
CONFORMALFLASH1:
FLASH is a key research area that may dramatically improve
the clinical relevance of proton therapy for patients around
the world. IBA is uniquely positioned to drive the development
of FLASH irradiation2-3, the next major innovation expected
in radiation therapy.
IBA is investing heavily in developing a novel technique
using the Bragg peak called ConformalFLASH. IBA’s
strategy to take FLASH today from research to a clinical
version of ConformalFLASH will take into consideration the
radiobiology, clinical safety, and future streamlined workflow
for FLASH.
ConformalFLASH means:
Combining the benefit of FLASH with the benefit of the proton
Bragg peak.
Dose delivery in 1-2 beams, with no need for multi-field
delivery, dose-splitting and potentially losing the FLASH effect.
Improved conformality due to reduced entrance and exit dose.
3-4 times more patients in ConformalFLASH than shoot-
through FLASH, through more eligible indications like
abdominal cancers4.
As the industry leader, IBA is collaborating with several leading
proton therapy centers in their pioneering research work
to better understand the mechanisms of FLASH irradiation.
DYNAMICARC1
IBA is developing a novel proton therapy delivery technique
called DynamicARC. This technique allows dynamic spot-
scanning irradiation and energy switching while the gantry
is rotating. It offers the advantages of Pencil Beam Scanning
(PBS), the advanced characteristic of the Bragg peak with
no exit dose, and the conformal delivery.
Proton arc therapy has the possibility to further improve
the quality of treatment. This technological evolution will
offer patients numerous advantages:
Potentially enhanced dose conformity at the tumor level and
a potential reduction of the total dose received by the patient2.
Simplified treatment planning and delivery without performing
multiple field adjustments.
Less time in the treatment room and a maximized patient
throughput thanks to an optimized workflow3.
Today, the IBA Proteus system is the only PT system meeting all
the needs in terms of beam characteristics for DynamicARC:
fast energy-layer switching time, intrinsic small beam, fast
scanning, and the ability to modulate dose rate within a layer.
Watch the video:
Shaping the future
of proton therapy.
ProteusONE
At the forefront of research with
DynamicARC and ConformalFLASH
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
Protect, enhance and save lives
by enabling INDEPENDENT
The priority of IBA in its dosimetry activity is to ensure that patients
receive a safe, accurate and reliable diagnosis and treatment.
In medical imaging and radiotherapy, radiation must be used
with great caution and precision.
The prescribed dose (expressed in Gray [Gy]) must be rigorously
respected, both in terms of intensity and location. Patient lives,
their safety and the success of their treatment depend upon it.
In medical imaging, the objective is to reduce patient exposure
to radiation, while maintaining good image quality.
In radiotherapy and proton therapy, the goal is to expose tumors
with millimeter precision to a high dose of rays, while reducing
the exposure to healthy tissue as much as possible.
In each case, the accuracy of the equipment and the control
of the dose are of paramount importance. To achieve this,
dosimetry instruments and software are needed to calibrate
and control the diagnostic and therapeutic equipment.
This is the responsibility of IBA’s Dosimetry business, which has
developed a range of tools to calibrate radiation equipment
and verify the dose of ionizing radiation that the patient absorbs
during medical imaging and radiotherapy.
In 2022, IBA acquired Modus Medical Devices and added
its sophisticated QA solutions to IBA’s existing portfolio.
The entity was rebranded as IBA QUASAR and is recognized
for its advanced tools for MR image guidance and motion
management capabilities.
Dosimetry
MagicMax
Modus QA - QUASAR™ MRgRT Insight Phantom
myQA SRS
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
SAFE MEDICAL IMAGING: QUALITY
ASSURANCE FOR A BETTER DIAGNOSIS
IBA quality assurance solutions for medical imaging systems
such as X-ray or CT (Computed Tomography) contribute
to improving image quality. This ensures a more accurate
diagnosis and therapy, while also controlling the radiation
dose released by the machine. Dosimetry solutions offer
a complete and instant analysis of the released dose to complete
the required test efficiency and with the highest precision.
SAFE RADIOTHERAPY: QUALITY ASSURANCE
OF EQUIPMENT FOR THE TREATMENT OF
It is vital that a series of quality control checks are made
on the calibration of the equipment and the plan calculation
to ensure patient safety. These controls are designed
to certify that the radiotherapy and proton therapy equipment
will deliver the required dose in the exact location designated
by the medical team. It also increases physicians’ peace
of mind about their patients’ safety.
SAFE HEALTH CARE PROCESSES: DISCOVER
RISKS, IDENTIFY CORRECTIVE SAFETY
Every clinic, regardless of its size, resources, and experience,
can benefit from prospective risk management. myQA
PROactive enables departments to maximize safety and
optimize their QA program with their available resources.
myQA PROactive workflow
Watch the video.
myQA iON provides high level
of automation and an easy
overview of all patient QA tasks.
We added some scripts to our TPS
to automatically send the DICOM
data to myQA iON as soon as a plan
is approved. myQA iON calculates
the dose and evaluates the data
during the preparation work inside
the OIS automatically; this speeds
up our QA. When we finish prep,
the QA is ready. The Monte Carlo
algorithm provides high specificity
and sensitivity to capture real
clinical errors. myQA iON’s accuracy
and performance give us high
confidence in our patient QA
processes. With the log file analysis,
we can track the given dose of
the accelerator. This happens
automatically in the background.
Dr. Stephan Drge,
Chief Medical Physicist, Lung Clinic
Hemer, Germany
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
PATIENT SAFETY DRIVEN BY ADVANCED
For IBA, service and support are about how the company cares
for its customers and their performance.
With almost 50 years of dosimetry experience, and through its
training offerings, IBA helps its customers run their equipment
efficiently and safely, thereby ensuring patient safety in
medical imaging and radiotherapy. The qualified dosimetry
service teams - uniquely distributed over 3 continents - ensure
24/7 instant access and quality support to customers.
Through cutting-edge innovations, IBA has a long history
of advancing Quality Assurance in radiation therapy, proton
therapy and medical imaging. The company continues
on this path, and believes that three drivers are essential
to further innovate QA:
Meaningful Innovation
Flexible Solutions
Customer-first Service
myQA Phoenix
Discover Dosimetry’s innovative and
independent QA solutions.
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
Protect, enhance
and save lives by being
COMPANY
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
IBA’s consideration of its stakeholders lies at
the heart of its entrepreneurial ethos. For, just
as we are committed to our customers, patients,
and shareholders, we realize that a commitment
to our people, to society and to the planet is key
to maintaining the quality of life of both present
and future generations. Nothing less than our societal
and environmental legitimacy as a company is
at stake.
B CORP AS A TOOL TO OPERATIONALIZE
Assess: 360 thinking to identify our strengths
and improvement opportunities in 5 impact areas,
based on a recognized and evolving standard.
Compare: a community of 8,000+ companies
worldwide, to benchmark our performance and share
best practices.
Improve: a framework to set milestones on our
sustainability journey.
Advocate: an inspiration for others, a contribution
to the advancement of sustainability standards.
BUSINESS AS A FORCE FOR GOOD
As expressed by our Stakeholder Approach, we at IBA believe
in a business model that is a force for good, creating shared
and long-term value for all stakeholders. We also firmly
believe that being a business that is a force for good is
the best business choice to attract and retain talent, stay ahead
of upcoming risks, and improve the current product catalog
while exploring new and growing markets.
Beyond words, we just renewed our commitment to make
this a key part of our operations by recertifying for the second
time as a B Corporation (or B Corp). The B Corps are part of
a movement to transform companies so that they contribute
to a more sustainable and inclusive economy and society, and
to highlight those that reconcile profit with societal purpose.
The B Corp framework is a holistic tool to assess, benchmark
and ultimately improve our sustainability journey. And being a
certified B Corp provides what is often lacking elsewhere: proof.
Through its recertification in 2024 at a score of 114 points
(vs 90 points in 2021), IBA is strengthening its presence within
the B Corp community of more than 8,000 businesses globally.
Patients / Clients
Shareholders
Employees
Society
Planet
We want to test our ability to operate
to high social, environmental and
governance standards. We took
the time we needed to understand
the B Corp certification, and what
it means in practice for the whole
Group. We’ve been certified since
2021, but there’s still a lot of work
to do. We’re doing very well in terms
of governance, particularly through
our capital base or the fact that we
pay our employees the same amount
as what is allocated to shareholders.
But we still need to make progress
on the environmental front.
Olivier Legrain,
CEO of IBA
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
LOW CARBON, LOW WASTE PRODUCTS
Understand / reduce the C02 and waste impact of our products across
their lifecycles and value chains
LOW CARBON LOW WASTE COMPANY
Monitor the IBA organization carbon footprint, zeroing it by 2030 (reduce
and decarbonization contribution)
Monitor the IBA organization waste footprint, reducing the unsorted part
by 2/3 by 2025
DIVERSE, EQUITABLE AND INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE
Pro-actively incorporate diversity, equality and inclusion into our business
as a major contributor to belonging
Enhance policies and practices pertaining to our mission,
accountability and transparency
Build sustainable supply chains, by screening the societal
and environmental impact of suppliers
STRATEGIC AXES OF OUR SUSTAINABLE
Inspired by our findings along the B Corp certification process,
we mapped our strengths and weaknesses as a company.
From there, we identified four sustainability strategic streams
to work on during the coming years.
As a company, we acknowledge
our strengths as well as our
improvement areas. Working on
our weaknesses gives even more
meaning to our global activities.
Thomas Canon,
IBA Sustainability Program Director ”
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
As Yves Jongen, IBA’s founder, always reminds us, our
people are IBA’s most valuable asset. After all, would our
mission statement to protect, enhance and save lives still
make sense if it isn’t put into practice for and by our employees?
As a responsible employer, we want to provide our employees
with safe and efficient working conditions and a friendly
environment conducive to their professional and personal
development.
Peak performance is achieved when we are at our best.
Accordingly a complete set of tools and practices is in place,
covering the areas of performance management (working
collaboratively), engagement monitoring (constant dialogue),
learning (develop knowledge and skills) and compensation
(sharing value created).
... I am convinced that in future,
talented individuals will list
sustainable development as
an essential criterion in their
choice of employer.
Olivier Legrain,
Chief Executive Officer
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
Our profit-sharing plan assigned to each employee matches
the dividend paid to shareholders. This aligns shareholders and
employees’ interests with a proper balance between short-term
performance and long-term goals in support of the realization
of IBA’s strategic commitment to its stakeholder approach.
We believe in flexibility. In selected countries, the new
MyChoice plan is designed to better align the individual value
of a salary benefit with the individual needs of IBA employees.
Each employee can, within set limits, use his or her la carte
budget to receive benefits such as complementary health
insurance, multimedia, education or mobility means.
International Women’s Day at IBA Dosimetry
One of the ideas behind this change is that before we evaluated people and granted them
a bonus on the basis of objectives they achieved. Now, we have changed the mindset and
we award the bonus because we trust they are engaged and will fulfill the tasks, projects,
and objectives that are required on a daily basis - and these objectives might be reviewed
more often.
Soumya Chandramouli,
Chief Financial Officer
I am really grateful for the welcome
you all have given me at IBA, and for
this collaboration which is for my
part positive and fulfilling. Thanks
for the trust you have placed in me.
Passwerk Consultant
nationalities
within IBA Group
PROMOTING A DIVERSE, EQUITABLE
Diversity is fundamental to our culture. As an equal opportunity
employer, we value the uniqueness of individuals and
the different perspectives and talents they bring to IBA.
We learn from and respect the cultures in which we work,
promote diversity within our workforce, and have an inclusive
environment that helps each and every one of us to fully
contribute to IBA’s success.
IBA is committed to providing equal employment and training
opportunities, and to treating applicants and employees
without discrimination. We do not discriminate based on race,
color, age, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, religion,
language, or disabilities. Our policy is that no one at IBA
should ever be subject to any kind of discrimination, and we
have designated individuals responsible for diversity, equality
and inclusion.
Through collective intelligence initiatives, voluntary
employees get involved into the development of IBA
beyond their day-to-day work perimeter such as strategy,
management, or specific initiatives like eco-design, biodiversity
improvement, volunteering policy, or green mobility. A group
of collective intelligence facilitators are trained and prepared
to enhance team collaboration through tailored sessions,
fostering seamless information exchange.
We also partner with external organizations such as Passwerk
to leverage opportunities to make our business more inclusive.
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
COMMITTED TO HEALTH, WELLNESS
Respect for universal human rights is at the core of IBA’s
business.
IBA is committed to providing a positive, productive, and
safe work environment with freedom of association, good
ergonomics and great employee facilities. We promote
the prevention of involuntary labor and human trafficking,
as well as the prevention of underage labor and burnout,
in a work environment that is free from violence, threats,
harassment, intimidation, mental or physical coercion,
and other disruptive behavior.
We do not permit any form of violence, whether physical, verbal,
or mental. We consider all threats of violence as serious.
IBA is committed to implementing best practices in the field
of Occupational Health and Safety to keep our promise of
No Harm to our people.
To achieve this result, we:
ensure IBA operations comply with applicable occupational
health and safety regulations, and when appropriate,
implement additional controls to meet company requirements.
empower all employees to stop any activity which they judge
to be hazardous and that goes against our ‘No Harm’ principle.
Through all steps of the development, implementation,
and operation of IBA products and services, we ensure
the highest safety standards for our employees.
At IBA, we recognize that time out of the office can be beneficial.
We partner with local associations to offer our employees
refreshing team building or individual activities during
lunchtime. Social clubs are promoted by IBA and organized by
voluntary employees. Climbing, golf, biking, running, hockey,
photography and indoor fitness are a few of the employee clubs
organized at lunchtime or after hours.
Keynote on burnout prevention
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
All IBA employees have access to a global high-quality
Employee Assistance Program, regardless of where they live
and work, providing assistance in the local language in more
than 70 countries.
Through this program, practical information and counselling
on a variety of topics is available to employees and their
relatives, and counselling is offered at the most convenient
time and location.
IBA encourages efficient, low-impact and healthy mobility.
We offer attractive leasing conditions to our employees
for low-impact mobility vehicles, such as electric bicycles
and scooters. This is an efficient way to combine daily
commuting and parking lot optimization, healthy exercise,
fitness, and carbon footprint reduction.
In 2023, IBA launched a revised, fully electric car policy,
together with adapted infrastructures: specific parking lots,
500 kW photovoltaic car ports and high-power charging
stations. We also provide attractive conditions for employees
who are willing to commute using low impact alternatives.
+20%
of employees in Belgium
and Germany have
leased a bicycle
Our stakeholder approach pushes
us to consider all aspects of our
activities, including societal and
environmental, and to involve as
many people as possible in order to
increase the positive impact we have
on society.
Olivier Legrain
Chief Executive Officer
More than 200 bicycles are for instance under lease in Belgium
and Germany, representing a more than 20% uptake by IBA
staff. As a recognition of IBA’s commitment, we were awarded
5 stars at the Belgian “Active Bike” challenge, ranking among
the most proactive Belgian companies in this area.
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
We firmly believe that the purpose of an economic player
must be to promote social progress and collective well-being.
The model we endorse - both externally and internally - goes
beyond regulatory compliance: it encourages an ethical
vision of practices and behavior, respect for differences
and a meaningful contribution to the communities around us.
A big thank you for the greater
choice offered by the new bike lease
formula, for the bike allowance and
the excellent infrastructure at IBA.
It’s a pleasure to cross the fields in
the morning and then overtake the
line of cars when approaching IBA.
Franois,
an IBA biker
While we invest heavily in training our employees, we are also
committed to educating young people. We believe that passing
on our knowledge to younger generations is vital to assuring
our future.
Over the long term, we will continue to support partnerships
with NGOs, foundations and universities which will help improve
learning and education. In 2023, IBA renewed its collaboration
with Foundation for Future Generations, as a partner of the Hera
Awards program, with the Philippe de Woot Awards, and with
the University of Louvain by supporting the “Civil Biomedical
Engineer” diploma program, enabling the Louvain School of
Engineering (cole Polytechnique de Louvain - EPL) to expand
its range of courses.
IBA employees regularly share their experience and knowledge
with universities and high schools. We have an active policy
of integrating young people into professional life, by offering
internships, end-of-study work, and student jobs. IBA mainly
hires local employees in the countries where it has operations,
creating jobs and providing wages to residents in the nearby
area, and thus boosting the local economy. This is our way of
making a positive contribution to the future of society at large,
and of attracting new talent to IBA.
And, since 2021, we support YouthStart, an association
which every year trains more than 1,000 young people “not in
Education, Employment or Training (NEET’s)”, preparing them
to enter the professional world.
YouthStart, an association which every year trains young people “not in Education,
Employment or Training” (NEET’s).
Watch the video:
Hera sponsoring.
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
ENGAGING WITH OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
We believe that a strong and responsible supply chain benefits
our community.
IBA has more than 100 main suppliers worldwide supporting
its design and product manufacturing. The majority of IBA
suppliers are located in Europe. IBA suppliers have been
selected for their ability to best comply with requirements as
stipulated by ISO 13485:2016. The selection and qualification
process of a supplier considers the criticality of the supplied
goods and services. IBA promotes technical collaboration
and innovation with its partners in order to reduce risks, costs
and improve the quality of its products and services. Strategic
partnerships are developed whenever beneficial.
In this context, IBA releases its ‘Conflict Minerals’ report,
and Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which outlines the minimum
standards expected from its major suppliers. The Code
of Conduct for Suppliers builds on, and is in alignment with,
the IBA Code of Business Conduct, which all IBA employees
must adhere to. Within their sphere of influence, IBA also
expects suppliers to communicate the principles and
to apply these minimum standards to their subcontractors
and suppliers.
IBA’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers follows and supports
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
by aligning the principles of this Code of Conduct with relevant
SDGs. IBA is committed to achieving this journey together
with its suppliers as equal partners.
Since 2023, we partner with Ecovadis to map the social
and environmental performance of our supply chain and screen
our main Tier 1 suppliers.
Around the world, IBA’s men and women, all experts in their
field, are passionate and enthusiastic about what they do. They
collectively seek to play an active role in putting our mission
statement into practice, “Protect, Enhance and Save Lives”.
They help each patient have access to the most beneficial
treatment for their cancer, and they bring more efficient
and more environmentally friendly industrial technologies
to our customers.
IBA also supports patients and their families, in partnership
with those working in the field and by encouraging voluntary
citizen actions by its employees: sponsorship, facilities
sharing, donations from employee initiatives such as “Relay
for Life”, “FunRun”, “Rock Against Cancer” or “Golf Against
Cancer” events.
Associations such as “Compass to Care Childhood Cancer
Foundation” in the US, “Muni Seva Ashram” in India, “La Vie-
l” and “L’Essentiel” in Belgium, which support people with
cancer in order to offer them a better quality of life, have also
benefited from the ongoing support of IBA and its employees
for many years.
Rock Against Cancer
Golf Against Cancer
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
IBA is conscious of the current major environmental crisis.
Amongst the many challenges to address, we are today
specifically focusing on two: our greenhouse gas emissions
and our waste. Our aim is to regularly broaden this focus
to include other environmental impacts, stricter targets
and ultimately restorative actions.
Soil Capital
Watch the IBA Soil Capital
Partnership video.
Ma Petite Plante challenge, Winter edition 2022-23
CLIMATE
Our impact on global Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions is both
direct and indirect:
A direct impact through our operations: our offices and
manufacturing infrastructures, and our employees’ travel.
An indirect impact through our installed product base:
production at our suppliers’ facilities, transport within the
value chain, and, once installed at the customer’s location,
via electricity consumption, servicing, and decommissioning.
It was very positive to see behavior
changes in the participants and
their families during this challenge.
Some of these changes will
definitely remain.
Augustin,
IBA participant to the Ma Petite
Plante challenge
NET-ZERO 2030 C02 EQ
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
Inspired by the EU climate targets we have set ourselves goals
for reducing our operations’ net GHG emissions to zero by 2030.
This means taking action on our infrastructure and mobility
impacts to reduce them by at least 50% below 2018 levels by 2030,
and for the remaining part, via decarbonization contribution.
Green energy contracts are in place, and renewable energy
autoproduction capacity such photovoltaic carports now
enhance our headquarter facilities to further increase the ratio
of low impact renewable energy consumption.
We are assessing the impact of our digital infrastructures
and software usage, to better understand the carbon footprint
of this ever-increasing part of modern organizations.
We have released a new mobility policy to address both the
attractivity and the carbon footprint of our employees’ mobility,
via incentives for low-impact transportation, mandatory electric
car leasing, home working practices and a more efficient
servicing organization.
Through the carbon farming project led by ‘Soil Capital’, IBA
buys carbon certificates from local regenerative agriculture,
aiding in decarbonizing regional operations. This voluntary
effort boosts Wallonia’s carbon farming market by backing
agricultural practices that cut greenhouse gas emissions
at the farm level.
Through the introduction of eco-design rules and practices,
IBA also continuously reduces the CO2 footprint per functional
unit of its installed base by increasing the energy efficiency
and reducing the mass of its product portfolio.
The ProteusONE proton therapy system has significantly
improved energy performance thanks to the use of super-
conductivity.
Our RadioPharma Solutions division offers the CycloneKIUBE,
with significantly greater compactness (less resources used)
and energy efficiency.
Our Industrial Solutions division has developed the new
generation Rhodotron, the energy performance of which has
greatly improved.
Upstream of the value chain, we evaluate with Ecovadis our
supply chain’s environmental footprint, focusing on climate
impact alongside other key areas.
In 2023, IBA introduced a new process for US return logistics,
opting for shared container space on ships over air transport
to Louvain-la-Neuve in Belgium. Despite the longer 6-week
journey, this change has led to substantial financial savings
and a notable 96% reduction in CO2 emissions for non-
urgent shipments.
We annually monitor and publish our GHG emissions related
to our installed base and to our organization worldwide:
offices and production means, and employee mobility (fleet of
company vehicles and professional air travel /public transport).
With a view to increasing transparency and benchmarking
our practices, we disclose our environmental data every year
through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). IBA was awarded
a B score in 2023, and is part of the “management level” class
of companies taking coordinated action on climate issues.
IBA’s support to pay farmers
for storing carbon really was
a necessary condition for the
success of this project.
Chuck de Liedekerke,
CEO Soil Capital LTD
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
WASTE
IBA also has an impact on waste production:
A direct impact through our operations: offices and manu-
facturing processes.
An indirect impact through our installed product base:
production processes at our suppliers’ facilities, transport
within the value chain, and, once installed at the customer
location, servicing and decommissioning.
We have set ourselves targets for reducing our unsorted waste
intensity by a factor of 3x below 2018 levels by 2025.
This will be achieved by making changes at all levels impacting
our logistics, manufacturing and offices. Product packaging,
for instance, is being continually improved to reduce its overall
environmental impact. Recently, the warehouse team replaced
a machine using non-recyclable materials with three new
ones utilizing recovered or recycled materials. These include
a padding machine for reusing cardboard boxes, an air cushion
machine minimizing plastic waste, and a paper compression
machine utilizing recycled paper.
Through the introduction of eco-design practices, our product
development processes implement the principles of circularity
– avoid, reduce, reuse, recycle. All products from the four
business lines, namely Proton Therapy Solutions, RadioPharma
Solutions, Dosimetry Solutions, and Industrial Solutions are
designed to facilitate maintenance and servicing. A circular
process to return defective or surplus parts deployed to our
customers is now in place, for repair, resale or recycling.
Additionally, IBA has demonstrated its focus on extending
the lifetime of its products, having entered a contract with
its first proton therapy system customer for a total system
restoration, bringing to a center installed 25 years ago the
latest proton therapy technologies. Similar refurbishment of
a Rhodotron installation, ensuring it meets the latest industry
standards and extending its operational lifetime, or relocation
and recommissioning of a RadioPharma Solutions accelerator,
further exemplify IBA’s commitment to prolonging the lifespan
of its products and minimizing waste.
Our Rhodotron industrial solutions allow in-house customers
or contract sterilizers to sterilize medical devices by E-beam,
offering a readily available and green alternative to gases such
as ethylene oxide, and nuclear materials such as cobalt-60,
hence avoiding associated hazardous waste and pollutants.
IBA has also developed “low activation” concrete, which
significantly reduces the amount of waste to be reprocessed
during the future dismantling of the casemates hosting its
accelerators, and therefore costs and environmental impact.
This concrete was also used during the construction of our
new headquarters.
As for carbon emissions, to better manage the outcome of our
actions, we monitor and publish our waste emissions related
to our worldwide operations.
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA also has an impact on biodiversity:
A direct impact through our operations: offices and manu-
facturing facilities.
An indirect impact through the waste generated by our
operations indirect impact through the waste generated by
our operations.
In partnership with Natagora, we have set targets for labelling
our main facilities ‘Rseau Nature Entreprise’. This aims to
develop biodiversity in our workplace by taking actions that
benefit nature. Various measures have been implemented
to support biodiversity, such as green roofs, planting native
species and differential mowing to reduce our ecological
footprint. A pilot micro-compost of green waste is now in
place, in partnership with a local company to test and hopefully
develop this innovative practice around our facilities.
To clarify its priorities, IBA maintains a materiality assessment
based on a dialogue with its stakeholders and the
reference framework recommended by the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI).
It is in this broad area that we are concentrating our efforts,
with the hierarchy of our priorities obtained by aligning the
concerns of the company (outside in view) with the interests
of our stakeholders (inside-out view).
This results in a materiality matrix that takes into account data
from the ongoing dialogue that IBA has established with all
its stakeholders, through formal and informal exchanges
and from publications on environmental issues.
For more information on our yearly results, please refer to
the GRI Index in our annual report.
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
IBA
High importance
Moderate importance
Importance of issues for IBA Management & Leadership
GRI 102-46 MATERIALITY MATRIX
Affordability & accessibility
Comfort Quality
Safety
Awarness PT
& Leadership
Customers
Statisfaction
Research & Development
Importance of issues for our 5 stakeholders
Employee development
Employee
Health &
Safety
Profitability
Diversity, Equity, Inclusion
Sustainable Invest. for
shareholders
Community Engagement
Education
Business Ethics
Responsible Sourcing
Waste Management
GHG Emissions
Biodiversity
Resource Scarity
Sustainable logistics
Sustainable mobility
Materiality Matrix
IBA
CORPORATE BROCHURE 2024
Management report
Approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting
of March 19th, 2024
This report on the FY 2023 has been drafted
pursuant to sections 3:23 and 3:32, 1, in fine, of
the Belgian Companies and Associations’ Code
(hereafter the “BCAC”), which allow to combine
the management report on the annual accounts
of the Company (rapport de gestion sur les
comptes annuels) with the management report
on the group consolidated annual accounts
(rapport de gestion sur les comptes consolids).
Hence, the present report is a consolidated and
integrated report.
The management
report
contains
fair
presentation and a balanced and exhaustive
analysis of the business’ development, the
results and the situation of the Company, as well
as a description of the main associated risks and
uncertainties.
The
management
report
includes
key
performance indicators of both financial and,
where applicable, non-financial nature related to
the specific activity of the Company, in particular
information related to environmental, societal
and employees’ aspects.
The
management
report
also
includes
information on:
The
foreseeable
development
the
business
Research and development activities
Acquisitions of own shares
The existence of branches of the Company
The use of financial instruments, when
relevant to assess the assets, financial
situation, and results of the Company
The objectives and policy of the Company in
terms
financial
risk
management,
including its policy concerning the hedging
of each main category of transactions
planned to be used by hedge accounting;
and
The company's exposure to price risk, credit
risk, liquidity risk, and treasury risk.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Management’s statement
Pursuant to section 12, 2, 3 of the Royal
Decree of November 14, 2007 regarding the
obligations of issuers of financial instruments
admitted to trading on a regulated market, Mr.
Olivier Legrain, Chief Executive Officer (CEO),
Director and Managing Director of IBA SA, and
Mrs. Soumya Chandramouli, Chief Financial
Officer (CFO) of IBA SA, state that, to their
knowledge:
the financial statements to which this
annual report relates, prepared in
accordance with applicable accounting
standards, give a true and fair view of
the assets and liabilities, financial
position, and results of IBA SA and the
undertakings
included
the
consolidation perimeter; and
this annual report contains a true and
fair view of the business evolution, the
results, and the position of IBA SA and
the
undertakings
included
the
consolidation perimeter, as well as a
description of the main risks and
uncertainties they face.
Highlights of the year (sections 3:6, 1, 1 and
3:32, 1, 1, of the BCAC)
The main events of the 2023
financial year, further details of
which are contained in the
Management report, were as
follows:
18 Other Accelerators systems sold in 2023
(2022: 36 systems), with a strong uptick in
Equipment and Services revenues
Seven PT rooms sold, comprising one
ProteusPLUS1 and three ProteusONE1
systems sold, and the restoration of an
existing three-room solution in the US
(2022: 17 rooms)
33 PT projects under construction or
installation at the end of the period
Continued good progress of IBA and SCK
CEN’s joint venture PanTera for the
production
actinium-225,
with
collaborations
secured
with
supplier
TerraPower and post-period end, with Bayer
and another undisclosed customer
Post-period end, Dosimetry product offering
and
footprint
strengthened
with
1 ProteusONE and ProteusPLUS are brand names of
Proteus 235
acquisition of Radcal Corporation, an X-ray
imaging specialist
We have started B Corp recertification
Henri de Romre appointed as Deputy CEO
The key figures in terms of
financial results are as follows:
Total 2023 Group revenues of EUR 428.7
million, up 18.7% versus last year, in line
with expectations and driven by accelerated
backlog conversion in H2 across all
business units, with particularly strong
growth from Proton Therapy (PT) Services,
Dosimetry and Other Accelerators
Performance
significantly
second
half
weighted,
anticipated,
with
strong
execution of backlog, resulting in positive
Group REBIT of EUR 6.4 million (FY22 EUR
1 million)
Very
strong
Other
Accelerators
and
Dosimetry REBIT driven by high value
backlog conversion and sales growth,
compensating
Proton
Therapy
REBIT
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
affected by customer delays, inflationary
pressures and R&D investments
Gross margin was 31.4%, compared to
1% in 2022, impacted by product mix
alongside a one-off positive impact in 2022
customer
bankruptcy
related
indemnities (FY22: 33.4% on a like-for-like
basis)
Group order intake of EUR 267.2 million; PT
and Other Accelerators order intake was
EUR 200.1 million and Dosimetry order
intake was EUR 67.1 million
Total Group net loss of EUR 9.1 million
(2022: EUR 6.1 million profit), primarily
driven by PT performance
Strong balance sheet retained with EUR
3 million gross cash and EUR 67.7
million net cash position. EUR 40 million
undrawn short-term credit lines still available
at period end
Equipment and Services backlog remains at
EUR 1.4 billion
Review of IBA activity sectors (sections 3:6, 1,
1 & 4 and 3:32, 1, 1 & 4, of the BCAC)
BREAKDOWN OF CONSOLIDATED TURNOVER BY
ACTIVITY
PROTON THERAPY AND OTHER ACCELERATORS
The proton Therapy and other accelerators
segment covers:
Proton therapy which offers turnkey solutions
for a more precise treatment of cancer, with
fewer side effects, through the use of proton
beams.
Other accelerators which offer a line of
cyclotrons used for the production of PET or
SPECT radioisotopes and a line of industrial
accelerators for sterilization and ionization (E-
beam and Rhodotron and Dynamitron types
of X-ray).
Dosimetry
15%
Proton Therapy
54%
Other
accelerators
31%
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
(EUR 000)
FY 2023
FY 2022
Variance
Variance %
Net sales
362 807
307 299
55 508
1%
Proton Therapy
229 065
218 761
10 304
7%
Other Accelerators
133 742
88 538
45 204
1%
REBITDA
10 487
18 443
-7 956
-43.1%
% of Sales
9%
0%
REBIT
10 397
-10 126
-97.4%
Proton Therapy
-23 403
4 383
-27 786
-634.0%
Other Accelerators
23 675
6 014
17 661
7%
% of Sales
1%
4%
(EUR 000)
FY 2023
FY 2022
Variance
Variance %
Equipment Proton Therapy
113 449
110 162
3 287
0%
Equipment Other Accelerators
99 068
62 606
36 462
2%
Total equipment revenues
212 517
172 768
39 749
0%
Services Proton Therapy
115 616
108 599
7 017
5%
Services Other Accelerators
34 674
25 932
8 742
7%
Total service revenues
150 290
134 531
15 759
7%
Total revenues Proton Therapy &
Other Accelerators
362 807
307 299
55 508
1%
Service in % of segment revenues
4%
8%
Overview
Proton Therapy (PT) order intake of EUR
119 million, with contracts secured for a total
of seven rooms globally
Other Accelerators order intake of EUR 81
million, with 18 new sales in the period, with
a number of upgrades and a strong contract
pipeline
Total net sales were EUR 362.8 million, up
1% versus FY 2022
PT equipment revenues increased to EUR
4 million
Other Accelerators equipment revenue
increased by 58.2% to EUR 99.1 million,
following strong backlog conversion, in
particular in the Industrial business
Services revenues grew by 11.7% to EUR
150 million
Combined PT/Other Accelerators REBIT of
EUR 0.3 million
Proton
Therapy
REBIT
significantly
decreased to EUR -23.4 million, impacted by:
customer delays, lower margin backlog
conversion of legacy projects and investment
and inflation costs
Other Accelerators REBIT on the other hand
grew strongly to a record EUR 23.7 million,
attributable to growing order intake, high value
backlog conversion and the growth of its
Services revenue
Proton therapy
PT revenues increased by 4.7% to EUR 229.1
million (2022: EUR 218.8 million), driven by the
anticipated acceleration of revenue recognition
in the second half. Equipment revenues
increased by 3% as contracts were converted to
revenues from the backlog, with five projects
under installation during the period. This was
further supported by PT Services growth with
two new centers in the USA and Italy starting to
treat patients in 2023.
The decrease in REBIT in the period reflects the
customer-related delays in backlog conversion
of some ProteusPLUS projects in China and
project mix, including older lower margin
projects.
addition,
targeted
investment
(EUR 000)
FY 2023
FY 2022
Variance
Variance %
Equipment Proton Therapy
113 449
110 162
3 287
0%
Services Proton Therapy
115 616
108 599
7 017
5%
Net sales
229 065
218 761
10 304
7%
REBIT2
-23 403
4 383
-27 786
-634.0%
% of Sales
-10.2%
0%
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
continued in overheads and R&D to drive the
future growth of the business, alongside
inflationary
pressures
and
some
foreign
exchange impacts.
There are 33 PT projects under construction or
installation. This consists of nine ProteusPLUS
and 24 ProteusONE systems. IBA is the
market leader in proton therapy with a 42%
market share, and there continues to be an
active pipeline of potential projects, with
particular interest coming from Asia and the
USA.
The first half saw sales of one ProteusPLUS in
China to CGN Medical Technology and two
ProteusONE solutions to Medtechnica Ltd, to
be installed at the Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical
Center in Israel. In the second half, a contract
was secured with Health Technologies Sp. z o.o.
for the supply of a ProteusONE at the Greater
Poland Cancer Center in Poznan, Poland, which
will be the second ever PT system in the country.
In October, a contract was secured with
Massachusetts General Hospital for the total
system restoration of a three-room system,
which was IBA’s first ever PT installation.
There are 43 IBA PT sites generating service
revenues
worldwide,
with
two
new
ProteusONE centers initiating treatment in
2023, in Arkansas, USA and Milan, Italy. PT
Services continued on its growth trajectory of the
past few years, increasing by 6.5% compared to

The expansion of PT as a recommended
modality for the treatment of a wide range of
cancer cases continued at pace in 2023. ASTRO
further updated its guidelines to include the use
of PT for the curative treatment of Adolescent
2 American Society for Radiation Oncology . Model Policies.
Proton beam therapy (PBT). May 2023.
https://www.astro.org/ASTRO/media/ASTRO/Daily%20Prac
tice/PDFs/ASTROPBTModelPolicy.pdf
3 Aetna. Proton Beam, Neutron Beam, and Carbon Ion
Radiotherapy. Clinical Policy Bulletins, Aetna, October 3rd,
2023,
https://www.aetna.com/cpb/medical/data/200_299/0270.ht
and Young Adult cancer patients (aged 22 years
to 39 years), as well as patients with genetic
disorders, esophageal cancer, and advanced or
unresectable pelvic tumors2. Moreover, in the
United States, major insurance providers such
as AETNA, also expanded their authorized
indications to now include esophageal cancer
and primary central nervous system tumors, as
well as malignancies in patients under 21,
amongst others3.
There are a range of ongoing clinical studies
using PT, including in head and neck,
esophageal, lung and breast cancer. Two Phase
3 trials4 in head and neck cancer have
completed patient recruitment in 2023, alongside
a multi-center trial5 for lung cancer. Results from
the Phase 3 trials are expected over the next
three years.
Investing in the future of PT remains a priority for
IBA. December saw the announcement of a
research collaboration with the University of
Kansas Medical Center (KUMC), focused on
preclinical
research
the
use
ConformalFLASH6 technology. This builds on
the existing relationship between IBA and
KUMC, who had previously published a joint
abstract on FLASH technology together during
the
Proton
Therapy
Co-Operative
Group
(PTCOG) Congress in June 2023. Earlier in
2023, IBA also announced the first FLASH
research project on a ProteusONE in a clinical
setting, with PARTICLE, the proton therapy
center in Leuven, Belgium. IBA also continues to
develop Proton ARC Therapy and completed a
comprehensive integration test at the Proton
Therapy Center of William Beaumont Hospital in
Michigan, US, at the end of 2023, paving the way
for commercial launch of DynamicARC7.
4 Torpedo – ISRCTN 1642014, The Christie’s NHS and
NCT03164460 MD Anderson
5 RTOG 1308
6 ConformalFLASH is a registered brand of IBA’s Proton
FLASH irradiation solution currently under research and
development phase
7 DynamicARC is a registered brand of the IBA’s Proton
Arc therapy solution currently under development phase.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Other accelerators
(EUR 000)
FY 2023
FY 2022
Variance
Variance %
Equipment Other Accelerators
99 068
62 606
36 462
2%
Services Other Accelerators
34 674
25 932
8 742
7%
Net sales
133 742
88 538
45 204
1%
REBIT2
23 675
6 014
17 661
7%
% of Sales
7%
8%
Other Accelerators had a positive year of sales,
with 18 machines sold, alongside agreements
for upgrades, with an order intake of EUR 81
million. Overall revenues grew more than 50%,
with equipment revenues alone increasing
2% to EUR 99.1 million. REBIT grew to EUR
7 million, an increase of 293.7% year on year.
This strong performance was underpinned by
high value backlog conversion. 26 installations
began in 2023, with 16 of them starting in the
second half. 17 installations were completed in
Services had a strong year, increasing by
7% compared to 2022 as the installed base
grew and the Industrial business in particular
started to implement a targeted service strategy.
Industrial Solutions revenues increased 110%
compared to 2022, driven by growing equipment
and services contracts. Order intake was slower
than the previous year, with impacts still felt from
post-COVID overstocking of medical equipment,
leading to lower demand for sterilization
services. Investments were made in recruitment
and training over the year to prepare for a
growing installed base, particularly in the US.
IBA sees strong interest in its E-beam and X-ray
technologies that provide efficient and greener
sterilization solutions, illustrating its importance
alongside the more traditional ethylene oxide-
and gamma-based sterilization solutions. This
shift will be further boosted by more in-house
sterilization sites operated by the sector’s major
players, thanks to the increased simplicity and
reliability of IBA’s technology.
Industrial Solutions continues to investigate new
opportunities,
such
environmental
applications to treat PFAS (forever chemicals)
and wastewater.
RadioPharma Solutions continues to provide
market-leading support for radiopharmaceutical
8https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S000
129982400014X?dgcid=coauthor
production for both diagnosis and therapy in a
growing
range
applications
including
oncology, cardiology and neurology.
A significant milestone was reached by the
RadioPharma business in December, with the
sale of IBA’s 100th Cyclone KIUBE cyclotron,
underlining IBA’s world leading position in the
mid-energy cyclotron market. Post period end
saw the sale of the first Cyclone KEY, launched
to enable small and medium-sized hospitals to
produce their own radiopharmaceutical products
in-house, for installation at a hospital in Benin,
West Africa. New products continue to be
developed,
for
example
AKURACY,
integrated solution for Cardiac PET imaging,
launched in May 2023.
The field of radiotheranostics holds enormous
promise for the future of cancer treatment8 and
IBA is providing specialist support for theranostic
clinical research in the production of two of the
most investigated radioisotopes, actinium-225
(225Ac) and astatine-211 (211At).
IBA and SCK CEN’s joint venture, PanTera,
continued to progress its plans for the expansion
of 225Ac production during 2023. In June, a
strategic
partnership
was
agreed
with
TerraPower Isotopes, to initiate the small-scale
production of 225Ac for clinical trials in 2024,
with a view to develop large-scale supply of the
radioisotope over the longer term. Post-period
end saw PanTera reach a capacity reservation
agreement with Bayer and another undisclosed
customer, both initiating in the second half of
2024 and the company is working actively on
several more partnerships. Construction of
PanTera’s large-scale production facility in Mol,
Belgium is expected to begin in 2025.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
DOSIMETRY
(EUR 000)
FY 2023
FY 2022
Variance
Variance %
Net sales
65 910
53 971
11 939
1%
REBITDA*
8 821
3 128
5 693
0%
% of Sales
4%
8%
REBIT*
6 146
5 493
2%
% of Sales
3%
2%
Overview
Strong sales of EUR 65.9 million, up 22.1%
from 2022.
Order intake remained high at EUR 67.1
million (2022: EUR 67 million)
Backlog reached EUR 41.3 million (2022:
EUR 38 million)
REBIT saw a strong uptick to EUR 6.1
million (2022: EUR 0.7 million), as R&D
investment levelled out and supply chain
issues resolved
Over the last couple of years, Dosimetry has
been reinforcing its position as the leading
provider of comprehensive combined QA
solutions for Radiation Therapy and Medical
Imaging by developing and expanding its
portfolio and geographical reach.
During 2023 this continued apace through
innovation, upgrades, new acquisitions and
strategic
alliances.
April
2023,
IBA
successfully
launched
next-generation
reference class electrometer DOSE-X, which
has already reached sales of more than 300
units. In May at ESTRO, IBA launched a
radiation oncology risk management software
called myQA PROactive, alongside updates to
existing patient QA software.
Post period end, IBA announced the acquisition
of US-based Radcal Corporation, a pioneer in X-
ray imaging quality assurance. The acquisition is
anticipated to be revenue accretive and EBIT
positive from 2024 onwards and will further
strengthen Dosimetry’s product offering. This
acquisition, combined with that of Modus QA in
Canada in 2022 as well as organic growth, has
doubled IBA Dosimetry’s footprint in North
America, both in terms of staff and revenues.
Dosimetry continues to work towards offering its
customers a fully end to end solution, that may
be supported by further strategic acquisitions
and a stronger presence in key geographical
areas like India and China.
Principal risks and uncertainties faced by the
company (sections 3:6, 1, 1 to 3 and 3:32,
1, 1 to 3, of the BCAC)
The Board of Directors, supported by the
Management Team, the Risk Management
Committee, and the Audit Committee, oversees
and manages enterprise risk. The Management
Team, the Risk Management Committee, and
the Audit Committee identified several functional
experts covering the various categories of
enterprise risk. The Management Team and the
Risk Management Committee are continuously
working
improve
the
enterprise
risk
management framework and are responsible for
the
implementation
appropriate
risk
responses.
Enterprise Risk Management focuses on five
risk categories: Strategic, Operational, Legal
and Compliance, Digital, and Financial risks.
The main risks within these categories are
further described.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Risk management is a core component of the
IBA strategy and performance management
process. The Board of Directors considers risk
appetite when making decisions.
The design and effectiveness of IBA’s risk
management,
practices,
and
the
recommendations from internal and external
audits are reported and discussed periodically
with the Risk Management Committee. Internal
auditors monitor independently the quality of the
risk management, governance, and control
processes through operational, financial, and
compliance audits. The purpose and authority of
the Internal Audit function are documented in an
Audit Charter and the Head of Internal Audit
reports regularly to the Audit Committee.
In addition to the Risk Management Committee,
the Quality Management Review (QMR) assists
the
Management
Team
fulfilling
its
management
responsibilities
particularly
respect of the quality of the Company’s products,
systems, services and software and the
development, testing, manufacturing, marketing
and service thereof, and regulatory requirements
related thereto. As such, the QMR supports the
Company’s risk management in the relevant risk
areas.
IBA
has
designed
its
Enterprise
Risk
Management based on the ERM Integrated
framework (2017) established by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO).
IBA
continuously
improving
its
risk
management process and regularly assesses
changes that could affect its strategy and
objectives, including strategic, financial, human
and environmental. Our quality management
system is ISO9001, ISO13485, MDD and
MDSAP certified. We are audited once a year by
our Notified Body. In 2023 we were also
inspected by the FDA and no observations were
made.
The Sustainability Council in October 2023
presented the action plan that has been put in
place along a number of lines, including CO2,
waste, diversity and governance, as well as the
status of each action. A more comprehensive
review of environmental risks by the Risk
Management Committee is planned for 2024.
The risk overview highlights the main risk areas
known
IBA,
which
could
affect
the
achievement of its strategic and financial
business objectives. The risk overview may,
however, not include all the risks that may
ultimately affect IBA. IBA describes the relevant
factors within each risk category and provides
insight into the most prominent areas
IBA has decided to present its risks as follows:
Customers, Competitors,
Investors
Evaluate risks that drive the IBA’s
mission and strategy.
Processes, Systems,
People, Value Chain
Identify the risk of loss from
inadequate
internal
processes,
people, or systems that will affect
IBA to execute its strategic plan.
Law, Regulation,
Politics, and Corporate
Governance
Assess the performance of the
IBA’s corporate compliance program, focusing
on the regulatory risks of Medical Devices.
Market Changes and
the Economy
Assess market movements that
could affect the organization’s
performance or risk exposure and
effectiveness of key financial controls.
Hardware, Software,
and Network Controls
Evaluate potential system failures
and innovation lag risks and
Strategic
Risks
Legal &
Compliance
Risks
Financial
Risks
Digital
Risks
Operational
Rsks
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
inadequate infrastructure, access controls, data
privacy, and security protections.
The October Sustainability Board focussed
amongst others on environmental risks and the
plan to continue working on an action plan for
2024 and the following years.
Strategic risks
Offering evolution risk
IBA continues to invest heavily in research and
development and cannot exclude the possibility
that a prototype may not be commercially viable
or may become obsolete during its development
because
competing
technological
development.
Asset depreciation risk
IBA invests in companies whose business sector
is complementary to its own. In most cases,
these are recently established companies in
innovative sectors. IBA cannot guarantee that all
these investments will be profitable in the future
or that some projects will not be purely and
simply terminated.
Staff bench strength risk
Since IBA was established, the number of highly
qualified persons employed by the Company has
significantly increased. However, it is possible
that the defection of certain key employees
possessing specific expertise could, for a short
time, affect one of the Company’s activities.
Competition risk and industry risk
Currently, IBA has no direct competitor covering
all the markets in which it is present. However, in
certain markets, it is competing against some of
the
world’s
largest
corporations.
These
corporations have highly developed sales and
marketing networks and more importantly,
extensive
financial
resources
beyond
comparison with those of IBA. Furthermore,
there is always the possibility that new
technology – notably a revolutionary therapy in
the treatment of cancer that would render a part
of IBA’s current product line obsolete – could be
developed.
The development and marketing of technology
resulting in novel therapies do nevertheless
require a relatively long period of time.
Reimbursement of healthcare
The subsidization by healthcare reimbursement
institutions of costs for the treatment of certain
diseases for which equipment made by IBA is
directly or indirectly involved – is continuously
under scrutiny. The healthcare reimbursement
policies of these organizations will in turn
influence the volume of orders that IBA obtains.
These subsidies from reimbursement institutions
differ greatly from one country to another.
Operational risks
Sale risk
In general, IBA’s customers are diversified
(public and private sector) and located on
several continents. Each year the Company
depends on multiple orders, particularly for its
proton therapy systems that are implemented
over several financial years. One additional
order or one order less, or changes in an order
that were not anticipated at the beginning of the
year, are characteristics of this field of business
that can have a significant impact over several
accounting periods. On the other hand, the lead
time for fulfilling orders gives the Company a
good view of its level of activity several months
in advance.
Inventory risk
Inventory includes high technology parts and
components subject to rapid technological
obsolescence. Inventory support production but
also spare parts to support our customers. IBA
optimizes the level of inventory required for
production and support on sites for our
customers under a maintenance contract.
Nevertheless, the evolution of the product and
variability of the demand may impact the
provision required for obsolete and excess
inventory, which would have an impact on our
operating results.
Unanticipated
uncontrolled
construction
delays on a customer site, cancellations or
rescheduling by customers, a change in
customer’s
financial
condition
obtain
financing,
delays
obtaining
regulatory
approvals or authorizations may have an impact
on the level of inventory required.
Product development risk
Because IBA does not have a full product in-
house testing capability, new products or
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
features are tested on a customer site, during
installation as well as operations and can
potentially impact customer operations for the
tests, as well as potential corrections of non-
conformities. A Hypercare process is in place to
alleviate those impacts, improve follow-up of the
new developments as well as accelerate the
return of experience/customer feedback directly
to the product development teams.
Because of the long-term life of products, as well
as the specific requirements of customers, IBA
must maintain multiple versions worldwide, with
the risk of maintenance, upgradability, and ability
to update.
IBA strategy of open vendor for software drives
additional risks to maintain interoperability all
along
with
product
life,
and
product
development. It has an impact on architecture
and requests close interactions with all those
vendors.
Quality risk / consumer protection /
product safety risk
IBA is required to comply with quality standards
in the manufacture of its medical devices and is
subject to the supervision of various national
authorities. Conditions imposed by such national
regulatory authorities could result in product
recalls or a temporary ban on products. This
could have an impact on IBA’s reputation,
customer satisfaction, and could lead to financial
losses.
Errors or accidents could arise from the
operation of our products. As a result, IBA could
face substantial liability to patients, customers
and others for damages caused. Adverse
publicity regarding accidents or mistreatments
could cause patients to seek alternative methods
of treatment.
Legal and compliance risks
Anti-trust / fair competition risk / ethics
risk
In our field of activity, and depending on the
countries and the regions concerned, bribery
and corruption are considered as potential
dangers. Being fully aware of this risk for over 25
years, IBA has since long published a Code of
Business Conduct. This code defines, among
other things, the strict framework in which IBA
conducts business, including unambiguous
rejection of risks related to corruption and
bribery. This Code is part of our work policies.
Every employee is required to read and pass a
post-training test to acknowledge clear and full
understanding and acceptance of the principles.
Failure to comply with this Code may result in
disciplinary
sanctions
for
the
employee
concerned. This Code is reviewed and amended
on a regular basis, and most recently at the end
of 2021. The latest revision includes additional
principles on environment protection, respect of
human rights, and anti-corruption matters.
In addition to the Code of Conduct, control
mechanisms are implemented throughout the
organization to prevent and detect frauds,
including
separation
duties,
regular
independent audits of travel and entertainment
expenses, and the availability of a fraud
reporting procedure.
Respect for Ethics is also part of our terms with
suppliers of products and services, agents,
distributors, and partners (see for example the
IBA Code of Conduct for Suppliers).
Intellectual property risk
The Company holds intellectual property rights.
Some of these rights are generated by employee
or production process know-how and are not
protected by patents. The Company has filed
patents, but it cannot guarantee that the scope
of these patents is broad enough to protect the
Company’s intellectual property rights and
prevent its competitors from gaining access to
similar technologies. The Company cannot
guarantee
that
the
defection
certain
employees will not have a negative impact on its
intellectual property rights.
Legal risk
Some contracts may contain warranties or
penalties which generally represent only a few
percent of the amount of the contract in the case
of conventional sales contracts. However, these
amounts may be significantly higher in public-
private partnerships inasmuch as the penalties
must cover the associated financing. Such
clauses are applicable only to a limited number
of contracts, essentially those relating to proton
therapy projects. The possibility that a customer
may one day exercise such a warranty or penalty
clause cannot be excluded.
The use of products made by IBA may expose
the Company to certain liability lawsuits. IBA
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
maintains insurance to protect itself in the event
of damages arising from a product liability
lawsuit or from the use of its products. In a
country such as the United States, where the
slightest incident may result in major lawsuits,
there is always a risk that a patient who is
dissatisfied with services received by products
delivered by IBA may initiate legal action against
it. The Company cannot guarantee that its
insurance coverage will always be sufficient to
protect it from such risks or that it will always be
possible to obtain coverage for such risks.
Regulatory risk
Some IBA products and devices cannot be
marketed
without
regulatory
approval
registration
medical
devices.
Such
authorization is necessary for each country
where IBA wishes to market a product or device.
IBA is authorized to market its particle therapy
devices in the United States (FDA), the
European Union (LRQA), Australia (TGA),
Russia (Gost-R), South Korea (MFDS) and
Taiwan (TFDA), Singapore (SFDA), and Japan
(Shonin).
Authorizations
may
always
revoked. Moreover, as IBA’s equipment evolves
technologically, further authorizations may be
required.
Financial risks (sections 3:6, 1,
8 and 3:32, 1, 5, of the BCAC)
More details regarding section 3:6, 1, 8, and
3:32, 1, 5 of the BCAC is provided, where
appropriate,
the
section
”Financial
Instruments” of this annual report, see page 162.
The Group’s overall financial risk management
program seeks to minimize potential adverse
effects arising from the unpredictability of
financial markets on the Group’s financial
performance. To this effect, the Group uses
derivative financial instruments to hedge certain
risk exposures.
Financial risk management is carried out by a
central treasury department (Group Treasury).
The latter issues and enforces written policies.
These policies provide written principles related
to overall financial risk management, as well as
written policies covering specific areas, such as
foreign exchange risk, use of derivative and non-
derivative financial instruments. Group Treasury
identifies, evaluates, and hedges financial risks.
These activities are undertaken in close
cooperation with the Group’s operating units.
Credit risk
The Group has exposure to credit risk. In order
to cover this risk, the Company policy for
equipment contracts is to have confirmed letters
of credit issued by its customers prior to
shipment of the equipment, or to contract a
specific credit insurance from either the Belgian
official export credit agency Credendo or private
insurers.
Besides, the consolidated financial statements
presents the financial assets and the financial
liabilities of the Group by valuation method (fair
value and carrying amount). The carrying
amount of these financial assets represents the
maximum credit exposure of the Group.
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates internationally and as such,
is exposed to foreign exchange risks arising from
commercial transactions (sales and supply
contracts), from financial assets and liabilities,
and from net investments in non-Eurozone
operations. Approximately 5.0% of the Group’s
sales (4.5% in 2022) are denominated in
currencies other than the functional currency of
the operating unit making the sales, while 97.0%
of costs (94.0% in 2022) are denominated in the
unit’s functional currency.
While the functional currency of the parent
company of the Group is the euro, the Group’s
exposure to foreign currencies is related
primarily to the US dollar, Chinese yuan, Indian
rupee, Russian ruble and Canadian dollar. In
particular, the US dollar and the Chinese yuan
are considered as material for the Group.
The Group’s general policy is to hedge sales
contracts denominated in a foreign currency as
well as expected net operational cash flows
when they can reasonably be predicted. To this
effect, provided there is no natural hedging
opportunity, the Group Treasury uses financial
instruments to hedge its net exposure to these
risks, including forward exchange contracts,
currency swaps, and forex options.
Cash flow hedges are further designated at the
Group level as hedges of foreign exchange risk
on specific assets, liabilities, or committed or
future transactions on a gross basis.
Appropriate documentation is prepared in
accordance with IFRS 9. The CFO approves and
the CEO is informed of significant hedging
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
transactions, with reporting to the Audit
Committee of the Group four times a year.
The Group has certain investments In foreign
operations, whose net assets are exposed to
foreign currency translation risk. As appropriate,
currency exposure arising from the net assets of
the Group’s foreign operations may be managed
through borrowings denominated in the relevant
currencies.
Proton Therapy segment is impacted by the
fluctuation of the USD exchange rate against
EUR. In 2023 a fluctuation of -3% of USD
against EUR would have had a negative impact
on the sales of Proton Therapy segment of -
12% (-1.10% in 2022).
The Dosimetry segment is impacted by the
fluctuation of the USD exchange rate against
EUR. In 2023 a fluctuation of -3% of USD
against EUR would have had a negative impact
on the sales of the Dosimetry segment of -0.46%
(-0.40% in 2022).
Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to changes in market
interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s
long-term debt obligations with floating interest
rates which were fully repaid in 2023. When the
Group considers that the fluctuation of interest
rates could have a significant impact on its
financial results, the Group will use interest rate
swaps in order to mitigate this impact.
IBA does not apply hedge accounting to these
transactions,
and
these
instruments
are
therefore revalued through profit and loss.
At the end of 2023 and 2022, the Group did not
have any outstanding interest rate swaps.
Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies
maintaining sufficient cash and marketable
securities as well as available (undrawn) credit
facilities, in consideration of the dynamic nature
of the Group’s businesses. These credit facilities
are detailed hereunder.
As at December 31, 2023, the Group has at its
disposal credit facilities amounting to EUR 58.0
million of which 23.4% are used.
(EUR 000)
Credit
facilities
total
amount
Credit
facilities
used
Credit
facilities
available
R.I.W. - subordinated
10 676
10 676
F.P.I. - subordinated
2 906
2 906
Short-term credit facilities
44 458
44 458
TOTAL
58 040
13 582
44 458
R.I.W. and S.F.P.I. subordinated bonds
R.I.W. and S.F.P.I. are two Belgian public
investment funds (respectively, at regional and
federal levels).
As at December 31, 2023, the bank and other
borrowings include unsecured subordinated
bonds from S.R.I.W. for a total of EUR 10.7
million (EUR 10.5 million in 2022) and an
unsecured subordinated bond from S.F.P.I. for
EUR 2.9 million (EUR 3.9 million in 2022) as well
as unused revolving (short term) credit facilities
(unchanged from 2022), and unused overdraft
facilities in China.
Credit facilities
IBA SA has access to EUR 44.5 million (initially,
EUR 67 million) syndicated credit facilities in the
form of EUR 40 million revolving credit facilities
maturing in December 2024. The revolving
credit facilities remained undrawn as of
December 31, 2023.
In China, the CNY 35 million overdraft facility
(borrower: Ion Beam Applications Co. Ltd) was
maintained for the same amount (undrawn).
Covenant risk
The above-mentionned facilities are subject to
certain financial covenants.
Following the terms of the S.R.I.W. and S.F.P.I.
bond agreements, the Group agreed to comply
with a financial covenant relating to the IBA SA’s
level of equity (determines based on the
statutory accounts published and established in
compliance with accounting principles applicable
in Belgium), which was met as of December 31,

The financial covenants applying to the
syndicated bank facilities consist in (a) a
maximum net leverage ratio (calculated as the
consolidated net senior indebtedness divided by
the consolidated REBITDA over the last 12
months) and (b) a minimum corrected equity
level (calculated as the sum of the consolidated
equity–- with certain reclassifications–- and the
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
subordinated indebtedness). Both covenants
were complied with as of December 31, 2023.
Digital risks
Information quality risk
Erroneous
information
information
not
received in a timely manner may adversely affect
a user’s decision. The amount of data managed
by the organization is growing and new
technology infrastructures are suited to manage
voluminous amounts of information. IBA is
continuously increasing the quality of its
processes and increasing the ownership and
control of data quality amongst the organization.
Integrity risk
To face the global increase of security threats
and higher levels of professionalism in computer
crime, IBA has developed a security program
since 2016 to ensure employee awareness,
govern our data protection procedures, and
protect the information technology infrastructure
against Cyberfraud.
IBA has intensified its security program during
further
enhance
employee
assertiveness in Cybersecurity through further
training modules on the correct and safe use of
the Company’s hardware and employees’
activities on social media, and through surprise
tests around phishing.
IBA's intention is also to move part of its on-
premises infrastructure to the cloud in order to
benefit from the high level of security of its
technology partners.
This program is currently being rolled out and
IBA's intention is to achieve the level of security
required by ISO27001 ("Information technology -
Security techniques - Information security
management systems - Requirements").
Branches of the company (section 3:6, 1, 5,
of the BCAC)
At the end of 2023, the Company had nine
branches in Prague, Czech Republic; Orsay,
France; South Korea, Krakow, Poland; Trento,
Italy;
Uppsala,
Sweden;
Groningen,
Netherlands; Newport, United Kingdom; Madrid,
Spain, and Dublin, Ireland. The branches were
established as part of the Company’s Proton
Therapy business (section 3:6, 1, 5, of the
BCAC).
Conflicts of interests and other information to
be disclosed pursuant to section 3:6, 1, 7, of
the BCAC
During the 2023 financial year, there was no
conflict of interest matter between the Company
and some of its directors, in the meaning of
section 7:96 of the BCAC.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Competence and independence of members of
the audit committee (sections 3:6, 1, 9 and
3:32, 1, 6, of the BCAC)
In accordance with section 3:6, 1, 9, of the
BCAC, IBA’s Board of Directors reports that:
Mrs.
Christine
Dubus
(representing
Nextstepefficiency SRL), chairwoman of the
Audit Committee since August 24, 2020,
member of the Audit Committee and Board
member since August 24, 2020, is also
Executive Director at Credit Mutuel Equity, a
subsidiary of Crdit Mutuel Alliance Fdralee.
Previously an audit partner at a leading
international firm, she has extensive experience
in all financial matters including group financial
reporting,
working
capital
management,
transversal finance transformation programs,
and efficiency tracking.
Mrs. Christine Dubus is an independent as
defined in article 7: 87 of the BCAC. She does
not maintain relations with the company or any
of its shareholders that would jeopardize its
independence.
Corporate governance statement (section 3:6,
2 and 3, and 3:32, 1, 7 and 8 of the BCAC)
Pursuant to section 3:6, 2, 1, of the BCAC, the
philosophy, structure, and general principles of
IBA SA’s corporate governance are presented in
the Company’s Corporate Governance Charter
(the “Charter”). The Charter is available on the
Company's website www.iba-worldwide.com, on
the
following
page
https://iba-
worldwide.com/investor-relations/legal.
The Company has implemented the principles
laid out in the 2020 Belgian Code of Corporate
Governance by adopting the Charter. The
Company has explained in its Corporate
Governance Charter, as well as further in this
Management Report where and why it deviates
from the Code.
The Charter was endorsed by IBA’s Board of
Directors during its meeting held on 18th
December 2020. The Charter may be updated
from time to time as governance of the Company
evolves.
According to section 3:6, 2, 2, of the BCAC,
IBA reports that it deviates from principle 5.3/1 of
the 2020 Belgian Corporate Governance Code,
which states that the Nomination Committee
should be composed of a majority of non-
executive,
independent,
directors.
The
explanation for such a deviation is that IBA has
a particular shareholder structure to preserve
and secure its anchorage in Belgium. Therefore,
there is no majority of independent directors in
the Nomination Committee.
IBA also reports that it deviates from principle 7.6
of the 2020 Belgian Corporate Governance
Code, which states that “[a] non-executive board
member
should
receive
part
their
remuneration in the form of shares in the
company (…)”. National law applicable to some
non-executive directors of IBA prohibits them
from receiving part of their remuneration in the
form of shares of the company. Therefore, IBA is
not in a position to abide by principle 7.6 of the
2020 Belgian Corporate Governance Code.
“The Company has complied with all the
provisions of the 2020 Corporate Governance
Code, except those from which it has deviated
for the reasons explained hereabove”.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
MAIN FEATURES OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL &
RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS (SECTIONS 3:6, 2,
3 AND 3:32, 1, 7, OF THE BCAC)
Management has established an Internal Control
system addressing its operations and financial
reporting objectives.
Control environment
The Board of Directors and senior management
establish the tone at the top regarding the
importance of internal control. Management sets
expectations at the various levels of the
organization.
The process of preparing consolidated financial
information is supported by procedures and work
instructions
guide
subsidiaries
the
preparation of their local accounts.
Risk management process
Financial statements are consolidated monthly.
This procedure enables the timely identification
of accounting issues.
The finance department works closely with the
legal department and external auditors, to
comply
with
changes
legislation
and
accounting standards.
These efforts are made to provide financial
information in full compliance with company law,
deadlines, and quality standards.
Senior management has introduced a range of
analyses to identify, evaluate and track financial
and operational risks. These include:
A four-year strategic plan and annual budget
A yearly enterprise risk management
process
A monthly management dashboard (versus
budget, versus previous year);
Treasury forecast tables;
Project status reports;
Procedures
for
establishing
technical
documents;
Request forms for recruitment approvals;
A committee to approve major investments;
A table of the firm and current orders for the
Equipment sector;
signature
matrix
for
all
Group
commitments to third parties;
A dual-signature authorization for payments
and bank-related transactions
In addition, the Chief Compliance Officer is
responsible for monitoring compliance with the
Code of Business Conduct and company
procedures. A reporting procedure is established
allowing all employees to report any incidents or
events representing a risk for the company. In
addition, since December 2021, IBA has taken
the initiative to establish a whistleblower platform
in line with Belgian, European and international
standards. The platform is accessible to
everyone through the Company’s website.
The Board of Directors and the Audit Committee
fulfill their responsibilities for monitoring risk
management by reviewing the reports and
analysis prepared by senior management, such
as:
Management dashboard;
The Monitoring and review of investments
analysis;
Analysis of research and development
achievements and performance;
The strategic plan and budgets for the
following period;
The analysis of the treasury position;
Internal audit reports.
Control activities
The control of risks to which the Company is
exposed is undertaken by financial controllers
and an internal auditor reporting to both the CFO
and the Audit Committee. These two functions
help to identify new operational or accounting
issues, apply suitable accounting procedures
and ensure the safeguarding of assets. Through
their work, they remain vigilant for any situation
that could indicate internal or external fraud. A
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
program of complementary tests and specific
actions is conducted if a red flag is identified.
Controls of procedures for the closing of local
accounts, approval of payments, invoicing, stock
management, and other regular activities are
organized locally. Procedures for establishing
financial statements are controlled by local
financial management and the management
controller of the division to which the entity
belongs. This is a cross structure between staff
from
operational
divisions
and
financial
managers of the legal entities.
Certain operations are centralized on a Group
level. Members of senior management are
directly involved in the review and approval of
these operations, thus ensuring control on the
completion
accounting
and
financial
information related to:
Research and development activity;
Investment and divestment in intangible,
tangible, and financial assets, based on an
approval matrix;
Long-term contracts and partnership contracts;
Treasury, financing and financial instruments;
Supervision
signatory
powers
and
delegation of local authority;
Capital operations;
Provisions and commitments.
The procedures for establishing the financial
statements of the Group are applicable to all the
units within the scope of consolidation. The
results of audits conducted by local external
auditors are shared directly with the Group’s
financial department.
Information and communication
The availability and relevance of accounting and
financial information are assured by the analysis
tools described above and by the information
technology and data processing environment.
Although
the
current
environment
heterogeneous, the computing systems are
sufficiently secured by:
A right-of-access procedure to data and
programs;
An anti-virus protection system;
A protection system for networking;
A data safeguard and preservation system;
Availability
and
continuity
service
measures;
A portal centralizes incidents, requests for
information, and other requests that staff
may have concerning IT services.
The IT department works with consultants based
on specific requirements. Work with these
service providers is defined by contract. Security
measures are tested periodically to ensure their
effectiveness. The maintenance of the IT
systems is an integral part of the IT department’s
mission.
Accounting
and
financial
information
are
communicated to Management monthly in the
form of reports from the management controllers
and consolidated financial statements. This
information is provided directly to division
presidents and financial management. The
annual accounts, budget, strategic plan, and
follow-up on investments and treasury are
presented to the Audit Committee before being
submitted
the
Board
Directors.
Furthermore, the Board of Directors is regularly
informed about the financial state of the Group
via monthly management dashboards.
The communication of financial information to
the market is managed by the communication,
finance,
and
legal
departments
the
organization. Shareholder concentration in the
Belgian market allows this process to be
centralized with a limited number of people, with
the CFO playing a leading role. A schedule
summarizing the periodic requirements for the
communication
financial
information
available at the Group level, with details of the
nature and date of each requirement. A
procedure stipulates the persons responsible for
preparing, approving, and communicating this
financial information to the market, based on
whether the information is restricted or not, and
commercial or financial in nature.
Management
Evaluation of the internal control system takes
place primarily when the management bodies
review the financial statements and analyses
prepared by the Finance Department, as well as
during the follow-up on the effectiveness of
internal control and risk management systems
by the Audit Committee.
The analysis tools referred to above are
established in line with the accounting principles
validated by the Audit Committee and Board of
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Directors. They are adapted in function of the
evolution
the
Group’s
activities
and
environment, as necessary. The pertinence of
the information and proper application of
accounting principles are reviewed by the
Finance Department during the preparation of
these accounting principles and by management
bodies during their successive reviews.
The CEO and CFO present and comment on the
financial statements to the Audit Committee and
Board of Directors every quarter or more
frequently if necessary. The Audit Committee
receives a summary of the control reviews
conducted internally; underlining weaknesses
identified by the internal audit department. It also
receives any comments made by external
auditors on the accounting decisions and
evaluation rules used in the preparation of
financial statements, as well as their proposed
action in relation to internal control.
SECTION 14, 4, OF THE ACT OF 2 MAY 2007
(SECTION 3:6, 2, 4, OF THE BCAC)
Based on the transparency notifications received
by the Company over the financial year 2023, the
respective percentage of shares held by the
Company’s main and historical shareholders as
of December 31, 2023 is as presented in the
chart below. However, this chart cannot consider
the variations of which the Company has no
knowledge
they
not
reach
the
transparency notification thresholds.
According to article 35 of the Company’s Articles
of Association applicable as of 31 December
2020, and in accordance with article 18 of the
law of 2nd May 2007 relating to the disclosure of
significant holdings in issuers whose shares are
admitted to trading on a regulated market and
laying down various provisions, the notification
obligation provided for in articles 6 and following
of this law is applicable to the crossing, upward
or downward, of any minimum portion of one
percent (1%), two percent (2%), three percent
(3%), four percent (4%), five percent (5%), seven
point five percent (7.5%), and in portions of ten
percent (10%), fifteen percent (15%) and so on
in increments of five percent (5%), of the total
voting rights in circulation at the time of the
occurrence of the situation giving rise to a
declaration under this law.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Situation at
31-Dec-22
31-Dec-23
Denominator
30 282 218
30 282 218
Entity
Number of
shares
Number of
shares
IBA SA
1 110 781
3,67%
1 100 781
3,64%
Sub-total
1 110 781
3,67%
1 100 781
3,64%
UCL
426 885
1,41%
426 885
1,41%
Sopartec SA
180 000
0,59%
180 000
0,59%
Sub-total
606 885
2,00%
606 885
2,00%
Sustainable Anchorage SRL
6 204 668
20,49%
6 204 668
20,49%
IBA Investment SCRL
51 973
0,17%
51 973
0,17%
Management Anchorage
348 530
1,15%
348 530
1,15%
SRIW SA
715 491
2,36%
715 491
2,36%
SFPI SA
58 200
0,19%
58 200
0,19%
Belfius Insurance SA
1 189 196
3,93%
1 189 196
3,93%
Institut des Radiolments
FUP
1 423 271
4,70%
1 423 271
4,70%
BNP Paris
528 425
1,75%
528 425
1,75%
Paladin Asset Mgmt
768 765
2,54%
768 765
2,54%
BlackRock,
Inc.
407 194
1,34%
407 194
1,34%
Norges Bank Investment
Management
1 133 108
3,74%
1 133 108
3,74%
Kempen Capital Management
875 388
2,89%
875 388
2,89%
Sub-total
13 704 209
45,25%
13 704 209
45,25%
Total
15 421 875
50,93%
15 411 875
50,89%
Public
14 860 343
49,07%
14 870 343
49,11%
Grand Total
30 282 218
100%
30 282 218
100%
All transparency notifications received by the
Company are available on its website, on the
following
page:
https://iba-
worldwide.com/investor-relations/legal.
the
Company’s
Board
Directors’
knowledge, there is no agreement in force
regarding the Company among its shareholders.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
LIST OF THE MEMBERS, AND DECISION PROCESS
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OF ITS
VARIOUS COMMITTEES (SECTION 3:6, 2, 5, OF
THE BCAC)
Board of directors
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of
Association (art. 11), the Company is managed
by a Board of Directors composed of a minimum
of three and a maximum of twelve members,
appointed by the shareholders’ meeting for a
renewable term, which shall not exceed the legal
term.
The Board of Directors is currently composed of
eight members.
The Company’s Articles of Association and
Corporate
Governance
Charter
require
balance, within the Board of Directors, among
independent directors, internal directors, and
directors representing the shareholders.
The Board of Directors must always be made up
of (a) at least one-third of independent directors
and (b) at least one third appointed upon
proposal by the managing directors (hereafter
referred to as “internal directors”).
The other Directors are appointed freely by the
shareholders’ meeting, it being understood
however that, among those directors, there
cannot be more than two members who are,
directly or indirectly, related to one and the same
shareholder (or a company or individual related
to the latter) when such shareholder:
1) either carries out (directly or indirectly)
activities in one or several business areas in
which the Company (or a subsidiary of it) are
doing business as well;
2) or owns more than 40% of the voting rights
issued by the Company.
The Board of Directors appoints among its
members a chairman and, as the case may be,
a deputy chairman. Unless otherwise decided by
unanimous
resolution
the
Board,
the
chairman, and deputy chairman may not be the
type of directors as defined in the preceding
paragraph.
The Board of Directors meets whenever
necessary and whenever at least two members
require a meeting.
In practice, the Board gathers at least four times
a year.
The major topics of discussion include market
situation, strategy, technological developments,
financial
developments,
human
resources
management and sustainability.
Reports on topics dealt with at Board meetings
are sent to the directors beforehand so that they
can exercise their duties with full knowledge of
the facts.
During the financial year 2023, the Board of
Directors met 5 times on the occasion of regular
board meetings - under the chairmanship of Mr.
Pierre Mottet -, once for the Sustainability Board
meeting, and once for the Product Committee
meeting. Attendance at meetings of the Board
was very high. A large majority of the directors
attended all meetings. During the Ordinary
General Meeting (held on June 14, 2023),three
mandates were renewed, i.e. Mr. Olivier Legrain,
Internal
Director
Ms.
Sibille
Vandenhove
d’Ertsenrijck,
permanent
representative
Bridging for Sustainability SRL, Independent
Director,
Mr.
Marcel
Miller,
permanent
representative of Consultance Marcel Miller
Comm., Independent Director.
The term of their mandate is set at the Ordinary
General Meeting to be held in 2026 (i.e. the
Ordinary General Meeting that will be convened
to approve the annual accounts as of 31
December 2025).
An EGM was held on September 4, 2023.
Whose articles of association were amended on
March 28, 2023, an extract of which was
published in the appendix to the Moniteur belge
of April 18, 2023.
Whose articles of association 6 al.2,9 al 3 and 10
were last amended by deed dated September 4,
2023, an extract of which will be published in the
appendix to the Moniteur belge
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Board of Directors as of December 31, 2023:
NAME
START OF
TERM
END OF
TERM
Olivier Legrain(1)
Chief Executive Officer / Internal
Director / Managing Director / NC / PC
/ SC
Saint-Denis SA (represented by
Pierre Mottet) (1)
Internal Director / Chairman of the
Board of Directors / RC (chairman) /
NC (chairman) / PC (chairman) / SC
Director
UWE
(Walloon
Business
Association) and several funds and start-ups
in the field of health and environment
Yves Jongen(1)
Chief Research Officer / Internal
Director / Managing Director / NC / PC
/ SC
Before the incorporation of IBA in 1986,
Director of the Cyclotron Research Center of
the Universit Catholique de Louvain (UCL)
Nextstepefficiency
SAS
(represented by Christine Dubus)
(2)
Independent Director / AC
(chairwoman)
Executive Director at Crdit Mutuel Equity,
Crdit
Mutuel
Alliance
Fdrales’s
Subsidiary
Consultance Marcel Miller SCS
(represented by Marcel Miller) (2)
Independent Director / AC / RC / NC /
SC / PC
/ Former Chairman of Alstom Benelux /
Member of the Board of Directors of
Schrder / Chairman of the Board of
Directors of Technord
Hedvig Hricak (2)
Independent Director / PC / SC
Chair of the Department of Radiology at
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center /
Professor of Radiology at Weill Medical
College, Cornell University / Professor at the
Gerstner Sloan-Kettering Graduate School
of Biomedical Sciences.
Dr. Richard A. Hausmann (2)
Independent Director / AC / RC / NC /
PC / SC
Formerly Chairman and CEO of Elekta AB,
Sweden / Held various CEO positions in
medical technology companies for the
diagnostic
imaging
business
lines
Siemens and GE / From 2004 to 2010
Chairman and CEO of Siemens Ltd China.
Bridging for Sustainability SRL
(represented by Sybille van den
Hove) (2)
Independent Director / PC / SC
(chairwoman)
Research and advice on sustainability /
Former chair of the scientific committee of
the European Environment Agency
RC: Remuneration Committee - NC : Nomination Committee - AC : Audit Committee – PC : Product Committee – SC :
Sustainability Committee
(1)
In accordance with the meaning ascribed by the corporate charter to the term "Internal director", namely an internal
director is a director appointed on the proposal of the managing directors.
(2)
Submitted to the General Meeting as candidate independent directors on their election, without excluding the fact that
other directors also fulfill the independence criteria. None of the independent directors ceased during the financial year to
fulfill the independence criteria set out in the corporate charte.
The Board of Directors considers that the current non-renewable mandate of Mr. Marcel Miller, representing Consultance
Marcel Miller S.Comm. as independent director is in line with Article 7:87 CCA and will end at the General Meeting of

Remuneration committee
The Remuneration Committee met 2 times in
A report on each meeting was provided to
the Board.
Topics of discussion included matters relating to
the 2023 bonuses, long terms incentives, and
compensation schemes in general.
As of December 11, 2023, the Remuneration
Committee was comprised of Saint-Denis SA
represented by its managing director, Mr. Pierre
Mottet,
Consultance
Marcel
Miller
SCS
represented by its permanent representative,
Mr. Marcel Miller, Nextstepefficiency SAS,
represented by its permanent representative
Mrs. Christine Dubus and Dr. Richard A.
Hausmann. The latter three members being
independent, the Remuneration Committee is
thus comprised of a majority of independent
directors. The Remuneration Committee is
chaired by Mr. Pierre Mottet. Mr. Olivier Legrain
and Mr. Yves Jongen are invited to attend it,
except where the Committee is called on to
decide on the compensation policy or other
matters relating to the managing directors.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Nomination committee
The Nomination Committee met 2 times in 2023
to assess the areas of expertise needed by the
Board of Directors, when directors’ mandates
come to an end, and to make proposals in this
respect to the Board of Directors.
Based on the report prepared by this Committee,
the Board had proposed to the Ordinary General
Meeting held on June 14, 2023 (i) to approve the
renewal
Mrs.
PROF.Hedvig
Hricak,
Independent administrator and SAINT-DENIS
SA, represented by M. Pierre Mottet and to set
the term of their mandate at the OGM to be held
in 2025, called to resolve on the 2024 annual
accounts.
The Nomination Committee is composed of five
members, among which the chairman of the
Board of Directors and a minimum of two
independent directors.
As of December 31, 2023, the Nomination
Committee was comprised of Saint-Denis SA
represented by its managing director, Mr. Pierre
Mottet,
Consultance
Marcel
Miller
SCS
represented by its permanent representative,
Mr. Marcel Miller, Mr. Olivier Legrain, Mr. Yves
Jongen, and Dr. Richard A. Hausmann. This
Committee is chaired by Mr. Pierre Mottet.
Audit committee
The Audit Committee met 2 times in 2023, in the
presence of Mr. Olivier Legrain and occasionally
of Mr. Pierre Mottet. On each occasion, the
Committee reported on its meetings to the Board
of Directors. The main topics addressed were
the financial results, liquidity situation, analysis
of the external auditors' review, examination of
the 2024 budget, and follow-up of internal audit
and risk management.
The Company keeps close control of the risks to
which it is subject through its financial controllers
employed in each of the divisions. This enables
the risks to be managed closely. The risks
identified are transmitted up to the Management
Team which reports to the Audit Committee and
develops an appropriate solution, in conjunction
with the Audit Committee and the appropriate
departments in the organization.
As of December 31, 2023, the Audit Committee
was comprised of three members: Consultance
Marcel Miller SCS, represented by its permanent
representative
Mr.
Marcel
Miller,
Nextstepefficiency SAS, represented by its
permanent representative Mrs. Christine Dubus
and Dr. Richard A. Hausmann. It is chaired by
Mrs. Christine Dubus.
Sustainability board meeting
The sustainability committee was set-up in 2018
as an IBA Board Committee.
That committee met once on October 19, 2023,
to define the strategy and ambition of IBA on the
Sustainability fronts which is, at IBA, defined
through commitments to our 5 stakeholders: our
customers and their patients, our employees,
our shareholders, society, and the planet.
Since
October
2020,
the
Sustainability
Committee is considered as a full board meeting
with sustainability as a specific topic, as
sustainability is key for IBA’s strategy. The name
has been changed to Sustainability Board.
As of December 31, 2023, the Sustainanbility
Board consists of all members of the Board of
Directors. Bridging for Sustainability SRL
represented by its permanent representative Ms.
Sybille van den Hove also chairs the meetings.
Day-to-day and strategic
management
The day-to-day management of the Company
and the authority to represent the Company in
such matters is delegated to two managing
directors, Mr. Olivier Legrain, Chief Executive
Officer, and Mr. Yves Jongen, The Chief
Executive Officer is specifically responsible for
implementing strategy and for the day-to-day
management and is assisted by the business
unit heads and heads of enabling services.
The Chief Executive Officer, accompanied by
the Chief Financial Officer, submits regular
reports to the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors has also asked the
Management Team members and business unit
heads to report to the Board on two topics:
adoption of the strategic plan and adoption of the
2024 budget.
PT Strategy Committee
As of December 31, 2023, PT Strategy
Committee consists : Mr. Olivier Legrain, Saint-
Denis SA represented by its managing director,
Mr.
Pierre
Mottet,
Mr.
Yves
Jongen,
Nextstepefficiency SAS represented by its
permanent representative, Christine Dubus,
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Consultance Marcel Miller SCS, represented by
its permanent representative, Marcel Miller, Ms.
Hedvig Hricak, Dr. Richard A. Hausmann, and
Bridging for Sustainability SRL represented by
its permanent representative Ms. Sybille van den
Hove. The Product Board is chaired by Mr.
Pierre Mottet.
PT Strategy Committee met on October 18,

Management Team as of December 31, 2023:
POSITIONS
Olivier
Legrain
(representing
Lamaris Group SRL)
Chief Executive Officer
Internal Director/ Managing Director/ Member of Nomination
Committee/ Member of the Product Committee (prior to its integration)/
Member of the Sustainability Committee (prior to its integration)
Yves
Jongen
(representing
Research Management Systems
SRL)
Chief Research Officer
Internal Director / Managing Director / Member of the Nomination
Committee / Member of the Product Committee (prior to its integration)/
Member of the Sustainability Committee (prior to its integration)
Before the establishment of IBA in 1986, Director of the Cyclotron
Research Center of the Universit Catholique de Louvain (UCL)
Soumya Chandramouli
Chief Financial Officer
Chief Financial Officer since 2016/ Working at IBA since 2004,
consecutively Group Consolidator, Group Financial Analyst, VP
Corporate Finance and VP Finance, Medical Accelerators Solutions/ 5
years as Senior Auditor at EY
Frdric Nolf
Chief Human Resources &
Sustainability Officer
Joined IBA in 2007 as HR Director Particle Therapy/ Previously working
at Abbott Vascular (Guidant) and GSK in various HR roles
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION POLICY
(SECTION 3:6, 2, 6, OF THE BCAC)
The Code of Business Conduct sets out the
principles of IBA’s social and staff-related policy.
It is, among others, based on the International
Labor
Organization’s
Declaration
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
In addition, the Board approved in its meeting of
December 2021 the Company’s Diversity, Equity
and Inclusion Policy (“DEI Policy") as follows :
“Diversity, Equity and Inclusion are fundamental
aspects of IBA’s sustainability approach. We
value the uniqueness”.
We define Diversity not only as statistics, but as
the accumulated richness of people’s unique
backgrounds, lives, cultural experiences, and
the diversity of thought and ways of acting that
this brings to our workplace.
We foster Inclusion by respecting individual
differences and capturing the advantages that
this provides to drive greater impact and value in
our work. We call it the IBA culture, in which we
create an environment that helps each and every
one of us to fully contribute to IBA’s success.
Equity is the guarantee of fair treatment, access,
opportunity, and advancement. IBA is committed
to providing equal employment and training
opportunities, and to treating applicants and
employees without discrimination. We do not
discriminate based on race, color, age, sex,
sexual orientation, national origin, religion,
language, or disabilities. Our policy is that no one
at IBA should ever be subject to any kind of
discrimination.
This in the end leads to a feeling of
connectedness which we define as Belonging. It
is the feeling for an individual to be integral part
of IBA, an organization where we all can feel at
our best everywhere, every day.
The B Corp framework chosen by IBA as
reference for its sustainability approach includes
measures on DEI, allowing IBA to track progress
on that front”.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
The Code of Business Conduct and the DEI
Policy are today our reference to describe our
commitment to diversity in our corporate culture.
The Corporate Governance Charter, published
on the Group’s website, defines the core
competencies the Board of Directors requires to
be effective. Members are nominated based on
the Board’s needs in terms of knowledge,
experience, and competence at that time, also
respecting the balance between outside, inside
and other Directors laid down in the Articles of
Association, the law, and the 2020 Corporate
Governance Code.
The Board and the Nomination Committee fully
acknowledge the benefits of diversity among
employees, within the Executive Management
Team, and within the Board of Directors.
As of December 31, 2023, more than one third
of the directors are of the other gender which
means
that
the
Company
meets
the
requirements on gender diversity.
The age distribution within the management
team is quite broad, indicating a fair and
balanced
value
between
said
members.
Management approved the Diversity, Equity and
Inclusion Policy on 15 and 16 December 2021,
and requests the Management to implement this
policy to the fullest extent.
SECTION 34 OF THE ROYAL DECREE OF 14
NOVEMBER 2007 (SECTIONS 3:6, 2, 7 AND 3:32,
1, 8, OF THE BCAC)
In accordance with section 34, 5 of the Royal
Decree of November 14, 2007, regarding the
obligations of issuers of securities admitted to
trading
regulated
market
(B.S.G.
03/12/2007),
the
corporate
governance
statement contains the following information.
Structure of the share capital, classes of
shares, rights attached to each category
of shares and % of the share capital that
they represent
As of 31 December 2023, the Company has
issued 30 282 218 shares, without a nominal
value, each representing 1/30 282 218 th of the
Company’s share capital and each granting the
same rights to its owner. No classes of shares
have been created.
ii) Legal restrictions or restrictions included
in the company’s articles of association,
on the transfer of shares
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the
Company’s shares.
iii) Owners of any securities conveying
specific
controlling
rights
and
description of such rights
The Company has not issued any securities that
convey any specific controlling right to their
owner.
iv) All significant agreements to which the
issuer is a party and which are contingent
to a change of control following a public
takeover bid unless their disclosing
would harm the issuer severely
Not applicable.
v) All agreements among the issuer and the
directors or staff, containing the granting
of compensations if the directors resign
or must cease their functions without a
sound reason or if the employment of the
staff ceases as a result of a public
takeover bid
There are no such arrangements in place.
vi) Controlling mechanism in a system of
staff-shareholding
There is no system of staff-shareholding in force
within the Company.
vii) Legal restrictions or restrictions included
in the company’s articles of association,
on the exercise of voting rights
As of 31 December 2023, articles 27 and 28 of
the
Company's
coordinated
Articles
Association provide the following limitations:
“Article 27:
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
shareholder
may,
with
its
affiliated
companies and persons, vote at a general
assembly for more than 35% of the voting rights
issued by the Company. Moreover, insofar as
other
non-affiliated
shareholders
holding
individually at least 15% of the voting rights
issued by the Company take part in the
assembly, no shareholder may, together with its
affiliated companies and persons, take part in
the vote, for each resolution put to vote, for more
than 50% less one security of the total securities
admitted to vote and cast respectively for each
resolution put to vote.
For the application of the previous paragraphs,
is deemed to be affiliated to a shareholder:
(i)
any company or person affiliated to it in the
meaning of section 1:20 of the BCAC;
(ii) any natural person or legal entity that is part
of the administrative or management body
of such shareholder or of a company
referred to under (i) above.
(iii) any third party acting in its own name but on
behalf of such shareholder or of a person
referred to under (i) or (ii) above.
(iv) any shareholder who granted a power-of-
attorney to such shareholder or to a person
referred to under (i), (ii) or (iii) above, to
represent him/her at the said meeting."
Article 28:
“Without prejudice to Article 27, any shareholder
who owns fully-paid shares, registered in
his/her/its name since at least two years without
interruption in the register of registered shares
and which meet the legal requirements (section
7:53 of the BCAC) shall benefit from the multiple
voting rights provided by the law for those shares
compared to other shares representing a same
fraction of the share capital.”
viii) Agreements
force
among
shareholders, known by the company
and that are likely to restrict the transfer
of shares and/or the exercise of the
voting right
There are no such arrangements in place.
ix) Rules applicable to the appointment and
the replacement of the directors and to
the
amendment
the
articles
association of the issuer
(a) Rules applicable to the appointment
and replacement of the Directors
In this respect, as of 31 December 2023, articles
11 and 12 of the Company's Articles of
Association provided the following:
“Article 11:
The company is managed by a board of directors
comprised of a minimum of three members and
a maximum of twelve members, appointed by
the shareholders’ general meeting for a
renewable term, which shall not exceed the legal
term.”
Article 12:
The structure of the board of directors must at all
times reflect the following equilibrium:
(a)
at least one-third of its members
(hereafter referred to as “independent directors”)
must be independent directors, chosen for their
experience, discernment, and personality and
who meet the definition of section 7:87 of the
BCAC.
(b)
at least one-third of its members
(hereinafter referred to as "internal directors")
must be elected on the proposal of the managing
director(s);
(c)
the other directors (hereinafter referred
to as "other directors") shall be appointed freely
by the General Meeting, provided however that
no more than two of these other directors may
be "directly or indirectly related to the same
shareholder" (or to a company or person linked
to it) within the meaning of indent 2 of this Article
12;
(d)
no more than one-third of its members
have been elected on the proposal or by the
deciding vote of a private institutional investor or
group of private institutional investors; and
(e)
no more than one-third of its members
may be "directly or indirectly related to a
shareholder" or group of shareholders (or to a
company or person related to it or them) within
the meaning of indent 2 of this Article 12, where
that shareholder (or group of shareholders):
(i)
either directly or indirectly engages in
business activities in one or more sectors of
activity in which the Company or one of its
subsidiaries is also active.
(ii)
or holds more than forty percent (40%)
of the voting securities issued by the Company.
For the purposes of this Article 12, indent 1, (c),
(d) and (e), shall be deemed to be "related,
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
directly or indirectly, to a shareholder", any
director (natural or legal person) who:
(a) is, or has been within the five years preceding
his appointment, a member of the administrative
or management bodies, or of the staff, of that
shareholder (or of an affiliated company) or has
received a power of attorney from that
shareholder ;
(b) has a business, shareholding or family
relationship with that shareholder (or an
associated company or person) or with a person
referred to in (a), that is such as to influence the
conditions under which he exercises his
mandate as director; or
(c) has been appointed on the proposal or by the
decisive vote of that shareholder.
For the purposes of this Article 12, the
expression "related" company or person must be
construed within the meaning of section 1:20, 1
and 2, of the BCAC.
Proposals for the appointment of "independent
directors" and "other directors" are made by the
nominating committee formed within the board of
directors. This committee is composed of five
members, including three internal directors and
two independent directors. In addition, none of
the directors defined in indent 1, (d) of this Article
12 may be a member of this committee, unless,
as the case may be, he is an internal director as
well.
Proposals for the appointment of "internal
directors" shall be submitted by the director or
directors
responsible
for
the
day-to-day
management who shall inform the board of
directors of the names of the candidates to be
submitted to the general meeting.
No director may be appointed on the proposal of
one or more shareholders if this proposal,
containing all pieces of information regarding the
proposed director necessary in particular to
enable the control of the respect of the balances
provided for in this Article 12, has not been
communicated to the Board of Directors within
the legal deadlines.
Any proposal for the appointment of a director
submitted to the general meeting shall mention
whether the person proposed is to be considered
as an "independent director", an "internal
director" or a "director related, directly or
indirectly, to a shareholder" within the meaning
of this Article 12.
If the general meeting does not vote in favor of
the proposals submitted to it in accordance with
the preceding paragraphs, new proposals shall
be formulated following the same procedure and
the general meeting shall be reconvened to
decide on the new proposals.”
(b) Rules applicable to the amendment
the
Company’s
Articles
Association
In this respect, as of 31 December 2023, article
29, 2, of the Company's Articles of Association
provided the following:
“Article 29, 2:
However, any amendments to the following
articles of the Articles of Association: Article 11,
Article 12, Article 13, Article 14, Article 19, Article
27 and Article 29, may solely be adopted insofar
as those attending the meeting represent half of
the share capital and as the proposed
amendments are approved by at least eighty-five
per cent (85%) of the votes cast.”
(x) Powers of the board of directors to issue
or to redeem the company’s own shares
As of 31 December 2023, the Board of Directors
was authorized to issue new shares or redeem
the Company’s own shares. In this respect,
article 6 of the Company’s Articles of Association
provide the following:
“Article 6:
The Board of Directors shall have the power to
increase the Company's share capital, to issue
convertible bonds or subscription rights, in one
or more operations, within the legal limits in
terms of threshold and duration.
The board of directors is expressly authorized to
make use of this authority in the cases referred
to in sections 7:200 (limitation or cancellation of
preferential rights and incorporation of reserves)
and 7:202 (public takeover bid) of the [Belgian]
Companies & Associations Code (hereafter, the
“BCAC”).
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
REMUNERATION REPORT (SECTION 3:6, 3, OF THE
BCAC)
Remuneration Policy: Managing
Directors and other Executive
Management Team Members
Procedure
In establishing the remuneration policy, the
Board of Directors has considered the external
environment in which IBA operates, legal
requirements and principles of the Belgian
Corporate Governance Code 2020, market
practice and guidance issued by organizations
representing institutional shareholders.
After review by the Compensation Committee,
the Board of Directors determines the direct or
indirect remuneration paid to the Managing
Directors in accordance with its remuneration
policy.
The
Committee
ensures
that
remuneration is in line with market practice, as
determined by studies performed by specialized
firms. The Compensation Committee monitors
and reviews the remuneration policy for
Executive Management Team Members,
adopted by the Chief Executive Officer. For the
purpose of the above and in general, the Board
of Directors, the Compensation Committee and
individual directors have the authority and duty,
subject to the rules defined in the Corporate
Governance Charter, to assign themselves
sufficient resources, including the assistance of
external consultants, if and when appropriate.
Principles of the remuneration policy
The key purpose of IBA’s remuneration
philosophy is to ensure the Company is able to
attract, retain and engage the executive talent it
requires to deliver on its promises towards its
various stakeholders – including its clients and
patients, its shareholders, its employees, society
in general and the planet –, whilst aligning to
their respective interests.
The structure and levels of remuneration, in
general, must be effective in meeting these
objectives.
Remuneration
programs
and
decisions at all times meet the following criteria:
They
appropriately
balance
external
competitiveness with other organizations
and internal equity, considering both the
content of the position, and the personal
competencies and effectiveness of the
manager within IBA
They are affordable, sustainable and cost
efficient, avoiding excesses
They reward performance aligned to the
business strategy, considering short-term
results and long-term focus
They
provide
transparency
and
predictability,
whilst
offering
enough
flexibility to swiftly respond to changing
business needs, if and when required
The resulting remuneration is a fair balance
from the point of view of all stakeholders,
taking
exceptional
circumstances
consideration
(fairness
factor).
exceptional circumstances only, the non-
Managing Directors have the authority to
change the policies set out herein or to
deviate from them in case it considers this in
the best interest of the company. This
derogation may concern all aspects of the
policy. “Exceptional circumstances” cover
situations in which deviation from the
remuneration policy is necessary to serve
the long-term interest and sustainability of
the company. Deviation can only be
requested by the non-Managing Directors
and the full explanation will be provided.
External competitiveness currently is assessed
by reference to a general cross-section of
companies active in the markets where the
executives are based.
IBA
does
continuously
assess
the
appropriateness of its remuneration programs in
view of evolving needs and insights, both
externally and internally, which may result in an
adjustment
when
deemed
necessary
appropriate.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Total Remuneration components for
Managing Directors and other Executive
Management Team members
For Managing Directors and other Executive
Management
Team
members,
total
remuneration
generally
consists
fixed
remuneration, variable remuneration and long-
term incentives. The weight of the different
remuneration components, as part of total
remuneration differs on an individual basis. In
general terms, the weight of each component of
remuneration accounts for a part of total
remuneration that may be summarized as
follows:
Managing directors and other executive management team members
PART OF TOTAL REMUNERATION (WHEN OFFERED)
Annual fixed remuneration
Between 49% and 72%
Annual variable remuneration (at target)
Between 28% and 51%
Annual Fixed Remuneration
Annual fixed remuneration is a cash component
of remuneration, defined in accordance with an
individual’s position, as well as his or her
competencies and experience in the position.
Annual Variable Remuneration
The annual variable remuneration program
rewards
performance
against
specified
objectives, defined and formalized at the
beginning of the performance period. Payout
levels currently are targeted at between 15% and
50% of annual fixed remuneration, depending on
the position. Actual payout levels are subject to
IBA’s performance. The maximum payout is set
at 150% of target in case of exceptional
performance,
whilst
performance
below
expectations results in a zero payout. The
performance period is the fiscal year.
For performance year 2023, performance is
measured against 3 elements: Profit Before Tax,
Order Intake and Sustainability for respectively
33%, 33% and 34%. These targets are geared
towards
achieving
and
exceeding
the
Company’s fiscal year objectives and specific
milestones on IBA’s ESG goals.
The Managing Directors are not present at the
Board and Compensation Committee meetings
where their performance and variable payout
levels are discussed and decided.
Profit Sharing Plan
IBA’s multi-stakeholders approach includes a
profit-sharing plan to materialize alignment
between
employees’
and
shareholders’
interests. The payment of a dividend triggers a
profit-sharing plan resulting in a common view of
success. IBA’s commitment is to distribute the
same amount to its employees as the total
dividend paid to its shareholders. A number of
Profit-Sharing Points is assigned to each IBA
employee, proportionate to their responsibility
level. Managing Directors and other Executive
Management Team members participate to this
plan alongside with employees.
Agreements with the Managing Directors and
members of the Executive Management Team
do contain claw-back provisions in relation to any
payments that would be made based on
erroneous financial information.
Long-term Incentives (LTI)
IBA issues LTI usually under the form of a Stock
Option Plan. The goal of this plan is to create
further alignment between management and
shareholders’ interests, allowing participants to
benefit from the long-term value created. The
value of LTI takes into consideration the potential
gain
vis--vis
participants’
annual
salary,
provided the share price appreciates sufficiently.
IBA has a policy to buy shares on the market to
back-up LTI plan to neutralize the related
dilution. These plans come alongside a share
ownership guideline as described below
A Stock Option Plan has been launched in 2021.
This plan covers several years and there is
currently no intention to open a new plan for the
same beneficiaries before its vesting. Any
proceeds earned under this plan will be handed
to beneficiaries in the form of full shares until
their Minimum Holding Requirement (MHR) as
set here below is met. When their MHR is met,
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
the plan beneficiaries may elect to sell the
shares obtained in excess of their MHR
Minimum Holding Requirement (MHR)
IBA strongly believes that management must
own company shares to strongly align with
Shareholder’s interests.
A minimum number of Company registered
shares are to be held by the Managing Directors
and members of the Executive Management
Team. Each of them has to acquire, hold and
retain directly or indirectly a number of Company
shares corresponding to 100.000 IBA shares for
the Managing Directors and to 10.000 IBA
shares
for
members
the
Executive
Management Team. The MHR shall have to be
reached at the latest by 31st December 2026.
The MHR can be built up in the manner which is
deemed most appropriate by the individual on
whom such minimum is imposed, including
through the Long-Term Incentive plan described
above.
The MHR is applicable during the entire period
of the contractual relationship with IBA, and
during a three year period starting at the date the
said contractual relationship terminates unless
the termination of the contractual relationship is
consecutive to the retirement or death of the
concerned Executive.
The Managing Directors are significant owners
of the reference shareholder and comply with the
MHR provision.
Retirement Plan
IBA does not pay any pension contribution to its
Managing Directors and members of the
Executive Management Team, who operate
under a Management Company agreement.
Other Components
IBA does not pay any other compensation
components to its Managing Directors and
members of the Executive Management Team,
who operate under a Management Company
agreement.
Contractual agreements with Managing Directors and members of the Executive
Management Team
The schedule below summarizes the main contractual arrangements, concerning each Managing
Director and member of the Executive Management Team, in relation to termination at the initiative of
the Company.
START OF
TERM
END OF
TERM
Lamaris Group SRL,
represented by Olivier
Legrain
Mandate:
2023;
Management
agreement:
Mandate: GM
2026;
Management
agreement:
indefinite
Mandate: None
Management
agreement: 6
months or
equivalent
compensation
None. The management
agreement also contains a non-
competitionobligation for the
duration of the agreement and 12
months thereafter
Exoplanets Research
SRL, represented by
Yves Jongen
Mandate:
2021;
Management
agreement:
prior to 2009,
amended in
Mandate: GM
2024;
Management
agreement:
indefinite
Mandate: None
Management
agreement: 12
months or
equivalent
compensation
None. The management
agreement also contains a non-
competition obligation for the
duration of the agreement
Frinso SRL, represented
by Soumya
Chandramouli
Indefinite
12 months or
equivalent
compensation
None. The management
agreement also contains a non-
competition obligation for the
duration of the agreement and 12
months thereafter
Frdric Nolf SRL,
represented by Frdric
Nolf
Indefinite
12 months or
equivalent
compensation
None. The management
agreement also contains a non
competition obligation for the
duration of the agreement and 12
months thereafter
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Remuneration
Policy:
Non-
Managing Directors
In accordance with IBA‘s Corporate Governance
Charter, published on the group website, the
Board of Directors determines the remuneration
policy and amounts paid to non-Managing
Directors, based on recommendations made by
the Compensation Committee. It is reviewed
regularly in the light of market practice.
IBA directors are currently remunerated by an
annual lump-sum fee of EUR 6,000, except
directors residing overseas, who, in order to
cover the specific time implications and
constraints related to intercontinental travel,
receive EUR 16,000. The Chairman of the Board
receives an annual lump-sum fee of EUR
12,000, whilst the Chairs of the Audit Committee
and of the Sustainability Committee receive an
annual lump-sum fee of EUR 9,000 each.
The annual lump-sum fee is supplemented with
a fixed fee of EUR 1,600 per Board or committee
meeting the director has been invited to and
which he has attended.
The Chairman of the Board receives EUR 3 000
per meeting attended. The Chairman of the Audit
Committee
and
the
Chairman
the
Sustainability Committee receive EUR 2,200 per
Committee meeting they chaired and EUR 1,600
per other meeting attended. The fixed fees are
on a half-day basis (assuming a half-day of
preparation) and adjusted per half day if
required.
Non-Managing Directors do not receive any form
of variable remuneration and no other form of
fixed, equity-based or in-kind remuneration in
the course of the year.
At present, it is not anticipated that the policy will
fundamentally change over the next two years.
Both the level and structure of director
remuneration are monitored and reviewed on an
annual basis, which may result in an adjustment
when deemed necessary or appropriate.
Managing Directors do not receive specific
director remuneration. The remuneration they
receive for their direct or indirect role in the
company includes compensation for their
director responsibilities.
Departure allowances (section 3:
6, 3, 3, of the BCAC)
Termination agreements with non-Managing Director
The schedule below summarizes the main contractual agreements, concerning each non-Managing
Director, in relation to termination at the initiative of the Company.
NON-MANAGING
DIRECTORS
START OF
TERM
PERIOD
AGREEMENT
Saint-Denis SA, represented
by Pierre Mottet
GAM 2025
None
None
Consultance Marcel Miller
SCS, represented by Marcel
Miller)
GAM 2026
None
None
Hedvig Hricak
GAM 2025
None
None
Nextstepefficiency SAS
(represented by Christine
Dubus)
GAM 2024
None
None
Dr. Richard A. Hausmann
GAM 2024
None
None
Bridging for Sustainability
SRL, represented by Sybille
van den Hove
GAM 2026
None
None
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Remuneration report Managing
Directors
and
Executive
Management Team in 2023
This
remuneration
report
outlines
the
implementation of the remuneration policy and
will be annually submitted to the Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting for an advisory vote
Shareholder vote (section 7: 149, 3 , of the
BCAC).
Annual Shareholders’ Meeting advisory vote on
the previous remuneration report was 85,85 % in
favor. No remarks were made to consider for the
edition of this report.
Context of remuneration during financial year
In 2022 IBA achieved a net Profit before tax of -
430m€ combined with solid order intake for all
our business lines and strong progress on the
sustainability roadmap. These results translated
into 90% of targeted payment of the variable
portion of executive pay in 2023.
Total Remuneration
In line with our Remuneration Policy, Managing
Directors
and
Executive
Managers
compensation was composed in 2023 of a Base
Salary and an Annual Variable Pay.
The
Managing
Directors
and
Executive
Managers who operate under a Management
Company do not benefit from an IBA sponsored
pension plan or of the other compensation
elements described here above.
On June 8 2022, the board of directors took the
following resolution:
The Board of Directors recommend that the
members of the executive management team
(MT), considered as such by the CEO and the
Remuneration Committee from time to time,
provide management consultancy services to
the
Company
through
independently
organized management company, and not
through an employment relationship. The Board
believes, together with the Belgian regulator,
that the framework allowing for the executive
management to perform its duties i.e. under
Principles 2.19, 2.20, 20.21, and 2.22 of the
Belgian Code of Corporate Governance (2020)
in collegial uniformity and with the greatest
impact, is best served through a management
company
structure
whereby
the
“intuitu
personae”
relationship
remains
the
most
important asset”.
On 29 September 2023, the contract between
IBA and Research Management Systems SRL
was ended in a mutual agreement, and a new
contract with Exoplanets Research SRL was
concluded for the rendering of Yves Jongen’s
consulting services.
Variable Pay – short term incentives
Plan Criteria
The variable compensation paid in 2023
relates to 2022 performance year. The plan
was based on business results vs pre-
defined goals which were measured for 33%
against Profit Before Tax (PBT), for 33%
against Order Intake and for 34% on
Sustainability.
The choice of these performance criteria
contributes to the long term development of
the company, being a mix of current financial
performance (backlog conversion), new
business
(backlog
creation)
and
stakeholders impact (sustainability).
In order to protect its competitive
position, IBA does not disclose targets.
Each criteria is assessed separately
against
pre-approved
targets.
performance score is assigned to each
criteria, resulting in the corresponding pay-
out as described in the following table:
Actual Pay-Out
At the group level, the Order Intake portion and
the PBT portion did not generate any payment,
and a B-Corp interim assessment by an
independent body led to a payment of 150. This
resulted in a final pay-out of 51%.
The variable pay is capped at 150% of target
payment. There was no need to apply this cap
for performance year 2023.
Score
Unsatisfactory
Improvement Needed
Medium
Good
High
Exceptional
Pay-out
75%
100%
120%
150%
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Executive
Managers’
variable
compensation
was
paid
cash.
The
corresponding total value of their variable
compensation is indicated in the table below.
Total Remuneration of the Managing Directors
The schedule below outlines the total remuneration received by each Managing Director
Name
Title
Currency
Year
Annual fixed
remuneration
Annual variable
remuneration
Retirement
benefits
Other benefits
Olivier
Legrain (1)
CEO
EUR
% of total
421 949
52%
393 942
48%
None
None
EUR
% of total
411 840
47%
468 164
53%
None
None
Yves
Jongen (2)
CRO
EUR
% of total
347 235
62%
216 848
38%
None
None
EUR
% of total
317 082
55%
259 838
45%
None
None
Managing Director and representative of Lamaris Group SRL
Managing Director and representative of Research Management Systems SRL and subsequently Exoplanets Research SRL
Details of 2023 variable pay for Managing Directors
Name
Title
Currency
Profit Before
Tax
% pay-out
amount
Order Intake
% pay-out
amount
Sustainability
% pay-out
amount
Profit sharing
sharing value
amount
Olivier
Legrain
(1)
CEO
EUR
0%
0€
150%
103 122€
120%
84 998€
10,36€
205 822€
Yves
Jongen (2)
CRO
EUR
0%
0€
150%
56 764€
120%
46 787€
10,36€
113 296€
Managing Director and representative of Lamaris Group SRL
Managing Director and representative of Research Management Systems SRL and subsequently Exoplanets Research SRL
Total Remuneration of the Executive Management Team*
Title
Currency
Year
Annual fixed
remuneration
Annual variable
remuneration
Retirement
benefits
Other
benefits**
Executive
Management
Team
EUR
% of
total
568 974
77%
168 514
23%
EUR
% of
total
475 463
72%
138 343
21%
17 375
26 308
*Managing directors excluded (See table Details of 2023 variable pay for Managing Directors)
**i.e. hospitalization insurance, long term disability insurance, car, bicycle, lunch vouchers, representation allowance, minor
fringe benefits, in-line with local practices
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Details of 2023 variable pay for Executive Management Team
Title
Currency
Profit
Before Tax
% pay-out
amount
Order Intake
% pay-out
amount
Sustainability
% pay-out
amount
Profit Sharing
sharing value
amount
Executive
Management
Team
EUR
0%
0€
150%
43 188€
120%
35 598€
10,36€
89 728€
Remuneration related to shares (section 3: 6, 3, 2 , of the BCAC)
Remuneration in the form of shares
No remuneration in form of shares was offered
in 2023.
Three stock options plans are active:
SOP2014 was granted on July 1st,
This plan fully vested on January 1st,
2019 and will expire on June 30th, 2024.
The exercise price is equal to the fair market
value of the share at grant, i.e., EUR 11.52
SOP2020 was granted on June 1st, 2020. This
plan fully vested on January 1st, 2024. 50% of
the options will expire on May 31st 2026, the
other 50% on May 31st 2030. The exercise
price is 7,54€ (being the average closing price of
the prior 30 days).
SOP2021 was granted on January 25,
2021 with a strike price at 13,39€ (being the
average closing price of the prior 30 days).
This plan will vest on January 1st, 2025 and
the options will expire on December 31,
Participants to this plan automatically
contracted a Minimal Holding Requirement
as per the rules defined in the Remuneration
Policy for Managing Directors and other
Executive Management Team Members
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Stock options
Name, Position
Stock option plan definition
Information related to the financial year covered by the
report
Opening
balance
During the year (*)
Closing
balance
Plan
Offer
date
Vesting
date
End of the
retention period
Exercise period
Exercise
price
Number
of options
at the
start of
the year
(2)
a)
Number of
options
offered
b) Value
of the
shares @
Offer date
(3)
a) Number of
options vested
b) Value of the
shares @ Vesting
date
c) Value @
Exercise price
d) Added value @
Vesting date (4)

Number
of options
offered
but not
yet vested
(5)
Olivier LEGRAIN,
CEO
SOP
3 years from
end of
mandate
(40% of
grant)
from 02-01-25
to 31-12-26
13,39
870
870
SOP
N/A
a) 50% from
02-01-24 to
b) 50% from
02-01-24 to
7,54 €
000
000
Total :
870
870
Yves JONGEN,
CRO
SOP
3 years from
end of
mandate
(40% of
grant)
from 02-01-25
to 31-12-26
13,39
967
967
SOP
N/A
a) 50% from
02-01-24 to
b) 50% from
02-01-24 to
7,54 €
000
000
SOP
N/A
from 01-01-19
to 30-06-24
11,52
000
Total :
967
967
Soumya
CHANDRAMOULI,
CFO
SOP
3 years from
end of
agreement
(40% of
grant)
from 02-01-25
to 31-12-26
13,39
967
967
SOP
N/A
a) 50% from
02-01-24 to
b) 50% from
02-01-24 to
7,54 €
000
000
Total :
967
967
Frdric NOLF,
CHRO
SOP
3 years from
end of
agreement
(40% of
grant)
from 02-01-25
to 31-12-26
13,39
967
967
SOP
N/A
a) 50% from
02-01-24 to
b) 50% from
02-01-24 to
7,54 €
000
000
SOP
N/A
from 01-01-19
to 30-06-24
11,52
500
Total :
467
967
*During the year, the following options have been exercised: Yves Jongen – 10 000 options under SOP
No options have been lost due to the expiry of the option term.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Evolution of the remuneration and
performance of the company
(section 3: 6, 3, 5 & 6 , of the
BCAC)
a) Annual evolution of remuneration
The annual remuneration of the Managing
Directors and the members of the Executive
Management Team combined has evolved as
follows (€):
Actual total remuneration
508.119
747.635
046.994
114.414
117.461
Number of positions included
Annual fixed remuneration
106.793
100.658
103.271
204.385
338.158
Annual target variable remuneration
894
391
845
068
115
Annual actual variable remuneration (related to
prior year performance)
179
948
883
345
304
Annual target remuneration (fixed + variable)
779.687
772.049
776.116
928.453
245.273
Annual actual remuneration (fixed + variable)
453.972
686.606
983.154
070.730
117.461
b) Annual evolution of company
performance
PBT
(894)
766
054
255
(430)
(315)
Order Intake
797
021
696
000
000
955
Net profit
(4.401)
610
921
879
057
(9.110)
*the table above is used to calculate the bonus paid during the first quarter of the following year
Annual
evolution
average
employee remuneration (€)
The
average
employee
remuneration
calculated as follows :
Selection of all people under employment
present and active on December 31 of the
fiscal year.
Determination
the
target
annual
remuneration (fixed + variable) per person
based on the gross remuneration as of
December

This
remuneration
determined at the individual activity rate
applicable on the same date.
Sum of all target annual remuneration
amounts.
The average is obtained by dividing the sum
the
number
FTEs
(full-time
equivalents)
present
and
active
December 31. The number of FTEs
corresponds to the sum of the activity rate,
Average annual target
remuneration (fixed + variable)
Belgium
67 543
68 017
70 295
74 836
79 975
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
on the same date, of each person included
in the selection.
d) Ratio between highest and lowest
remuneration
The ratio between the highest and
the lowest employee remuneration of the
company in Belgium is 17-1.
For this calculation the lowest employee
remuneration corresponds to the lowest
annual
remuneration
included
the
selection for the calculation in 3.c) above, as
applicable on December 31 of the fiscal year
and, if needed, recalculated to its full-time
equivalent.
The highest remuneration is equal to
834 963€, which corresponds to the target
annual remuneration of the CEO, Mr Olivier
Legrain, applicable as of December 31 of
the fiscal year.
When considering base pay only, the
ratio between the highest and the lowest
employee remuneration of the company in
Belgium is 10-1
Table of Total Remuneration non-Managing Directors
The gross amounts that were paid to non-Managing Directors in 2023 are as follows:
* BM – Board meeting; AC – Audit Committee meeting; NC – Nomination Committee meeting; CC – Compensation Committee
meeting; MAC – Mergers & Acquisitions Committee meeting; PC – Product Committee meeting; SC – Sustainability Committee.
N/A indicates that the director is not a member of the Committee or that no Committee meeting has taken place; Other –
Attendance of other meetings, such as client user meetings and/or strategic meetings
Board Member
(EUR)
LUMP-SUM FEE (EUR)
MEETING RELATED FEES* (EUR)
Saint-Denis SA, represented by Pierre
Mottet (internal director, Chairman of
the Board, of the Nomination Committee
and of the Compensation Committee)
61 500
12 000
CC/NC
MAC
OTHER
22 500
9 000
9 000
N/A
6 000
3 000
NONE
SCS Consultance Marcel Miller,
represented by Marcel Miller
(independent director)
34 000
6 000
CC/NC
MAC
OTHER
12 000
6 400
4 800
N/A
3 200
1 600
NONE
Hausmann Consulting, represented by
Dr. Richard Hausmann (independent
director)
32 400
6 000
CC/NC
MAC
OTHER
12 000
6 400
4 800
N/A
3 200
N/A
NONE
Nextstepefficiency SAS l, represented by
Christine Dubus (independent director,
chairwoman of the Audit Committee)
39 400
9 000
CC/NC
MAC
OTHER
12 000
8 800
4 800
N/A
3 200
1 600
NONE
Bridging for Sustainability, represented
by Sybille van den Hove (independent
director, chairwoman of the Sustainability
Committee)
26 400
9 000
CC/NC
MAC
OTHER
12 000
N/A
N/A
N/A
3 200
2 200
NONE
Hedvig Hricak (independent director)
32 000
16 000
CC/NC
MAC
OTHER
11 200
N/A
N/A
N/A
3 200
1 600
NONE
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
In 2023, the Group has also employed the
services of Saint-Denis SA for specific activities
not related to its directorship. The fees
corresponding to these services amounted to
EUR 465 182.
Codes of conduct (sections 3:6, 4 and 3 :32,
2, of the BCAC)
The Company is committed to the honest,
ethical, and honorable conduct of its business. It
believes that ethical management is the lynchpin
of its continued growth and success and that it
will enable it to maintain its good reputation and
achieve its strategic mission of protecting,
enhancing, and saving lives. IBA’s values here
detailed are fully part of its business model and
drives
IBA’s
objectives,
strategies,
and
organization. For this reason, the Company has
worked to create a Code of Business Conduct
and updates it on a regular basis, the most
recent update being 2021.
This Code defines the fundamental principles of
business conduct ( a total of 11 principles are
described) and provides guidance for the
Group’s employees and co-contracting parties
on such matters as business partnerships,
conflicts of interest, fair competition, protection
of intellectual property, data privacy and
confidentiality, anti-bribery and corruption, and
protection of the universal human rights, of the
environment, health, and safety.
A new version of this Code was approved by the
Board of directors on December 18, 2020 and
slightly updated in 2021. This new version
underlines the importance of and details specific
actions taken against corruption and bribery as
well as for the active protection of Human Rights.
The Code of Business Conduct is available on
the
Company’s
website
www.iba-
worldwide.com, on the following https://www.iba-
worldwide.com/content/code-conduct
This Code is the object of a specific training with
a quiz with a required 80% succes rate for
passing, mandatory for all IBA employees,
trainees, interim personnel and a selection of
consultants. The purpose of this training is to
remind employees of the fundamental principles
contained in the Code, which we apply every day
at IBA throughout all businesses and across the
globe. It also aims at informing employees of the
different options to report non-compliance with
the Code. In December 2021, a whistleblower
platform in line with European and international
standards was activated on the Company’s
website. The platform thus provides IBA’s
stakeholders with the possibility to anonimously
report alleged violations of the Code of Business
Conduct in addition to the existing Company
channels. Complaints are managed by the
Compliance Officer who remains the central
point of contact with the responsibility to monitor
compliance and follow up on reported incidents
of non-compliance. All complaints concerned
either potential conflicts of interests (Principle 1
of the Code of Business Conduct) or alleged
(attempts) of corruption (Principle 10 of the Code
of Business Conduct). The countries involved
were mainly China and Russia. No conclusive
evidence was found for any of the alleged
violations. The Compliance Officer reports on
the Code of Business Conduct (training,
monitoring, investigations, conflict of interest
notifications and suggestions for improvement)
to the Company’s Audit Committee.
In 2023, over 90% of IBA’s employees passed
the training on the Code of Business Conduct
(with a score of more than 80%).
IBA has also implemented a set of ethical
principles of doing business with Suppliers. All
suppliers of goods and services of IBA are
required to subscribe to these principles. The
Suppliers Code is attached to all contract
templates and final contracts signed by IBA’s
suppliers. Annual ad hoc audits are carried out
to monitor compliance with the Suppliers Code.
Policy and Targets
The Code of Business Conduct sets out the
principles of IBA’s social and staff-related
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) policy. It is,
among others, based on the International Labor
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work.
IBA’s employees are the most valuable
resources of the Company and are essential to
its success. Diversity is fundamental to IBA’s
culture and the uniqueness of individuals and the
various perspectives and talents they bring are
recognized and valued. The Company promotes
diversity within our workforce and an inclusive
environment that helps each and every one of us
to fully contribute to its success.
IBA is committed to provide equal employment
opportunities
and
treating
applicants
and
employees
without
discrimination.
discrimination is based on race, color, age, sex
(including pregnancy, sexual orientation, or
gender
identity),
national
origin,
religion,
language, veteran status, genetic information
(including family medical history), and physical
or mental disability. The Company’s DEI policy is
that no one at IBA should ever be subject to any
kind of discrimination. The membership or non-
membership of a trade union is also free.
IBA commits itself to a positive, productive, and
safe work environment that is free from violence,
threats, harassment, intimidation, mental or
physical coercion, and other disruptive behavior.
The Company does not permit any form of
violence, whether physical, verbal, or mental; all
threats of violence are considered serious. IBA
is also committed to a workplace free of
harassment. Social rights, as an integral part of
human rights, are actively protected by the
Company.
IBA also ensures the highest standards of safety
for all employees. IBA’s target, as defined in the
Code of Business Conduct, is “No Harm” to our
people. As an example, the Code of Business
Conduct clearly states that all employees are
empowered to stop any activity which they judge
hazardous and goes against the “No Harm”
principle. The Code also defines working times
that cannot be exceeded, even if local rules and
regulations allow for such excess. Other internal
policies ensure a high level of safety for all
employees (e.g.: the “Working at Height Policy”,
the “PPE Matrix Policy”, the “Global Radiation
Safety Policy”, the “LOTO Policy”, the “Electrical
Policy”,…). The implementation, monitoring, and
updating of these policies are discussed in the
Committee for Protection and Prevention at
Work.
Beyond mere compliance with the law, IBA
conducts its business in accordance with the
highest standards of honesty and integrity.
In addition to the Code of Business Conduct,
IBA’s Data Handling Policy explains how IBA
complies with the General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR) to protect the Personal Data
clients,
suppliers,
patients,
investors,
contractors, staff members, and anyone else IBA
is doing business with.
IBA supports local businesses, strengthening
communities,
and
reducing
emissions
associated with transporting goods. IBA also
recognizes
that
establishing
long-term
relationships with significant suppliers is an
indicator of steadiness and provides revenue
and job stability for the supplier and their
employees. IBA hires employees in majority in-
country, creating jobs and providing wages to
residents in the local area, boosting the local
economy. IBA facilities themselves are built,
maintained, and controlled in respect of local
regulations, have waste recycling in place, and
no toxic air or water emissions that could affect
local communities.
Non-financial Indicators and Results
A system of formal reporting is described in the
Code of Business Conduct and encourages the
denunciation
infringing
practices
(e.g.:
discrimination,
harassment,
coercion,
etc.)
through
both
internal
channels
and
whistleblower platform. When such notification is
made to IBA, IBA promptly takes appropriate
measuresto bring the situation back into
conformity with the Code and the Company’s
policies, and to prevent a recurrence of such a
situation.
The age distribution within the IBA Group is quite
wide, ranging from 20 to over 60, indicating a fair
and balanced value between employees.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
IBA Employee age pyramid
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
The percentage of women remains stable at
27% and employees of 65 different nationalities
are now part of IBA.
At the level of the IBA group, we are already
tracking different Diversity and Inclusion data in
our recruitment, promotions, salary review to
make sure we do not have any conscious or
unconscious bias in our management decisions.
Our recruitment policy and internal mobility offer
every year development opportunities to our
employees and for applicants to join IBA all
around the world.
In 2023, IBA opened more than 400 positions in
39 countries:
More than 40% were opportunities for IBA
employees to benefit from internal mobility
within the group
We hired a bit more than 200 new
colleagues from 22 to 61 years old, quite
equilibrate to the IBA Age pyramid
IBA regularly runs equity analysis, in the context
the
worker council
analysis
(‘Conseil
d’Entreprise), or during our yearly salary review
process
This addresses the following topics – a.o.:
F/M ratio, absolute, and per work category
F/M ratio for candidates (candidate to a job,
but not yet hired)
Access to training
Pay equity
Nationalities
Access to part-time
Here below are the latest data 15-02-2024 at the
group level. The graph shows the average of the
ratio
between
ABS+ (annual
base
salary
excluding bonuses) and the local base rate
salary.
The conclusion of these analyses is that IBA's
policy is not only respectful of women and men
but tends to respect all people without
distinction, across the group’s. Note: small
number may distort comparison especially
above grade 12. We are also doing our lesson
learned about the discrepancies in the grades 13
& 14 due to specific functions with a high market
salary rate with very limited female in function.
No data privacy incident were reported in 2023.
No incidents of discrimination or harassment
were reported in 2023.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Risks and Risk Management
The risks and risk management of the social and
staff related matters are both described above,
in the dedicated Section “Principal Risks and
Uncertainties faced by the Company” (Sections
3:6, 1, 1 to 3 and 3:32, 1, 1 to 3, of the
BCAC).
Environmental Matters
Policy and Targets
IBA promotes a sustainable entrepreneurial
business model that serves society while striving
to respect the limits of our planet, and, in order
to do so, develops and introduces technologies
with less or low environmental impact and
processes, whether:
in its business activities, by working to help
create a society with sound material cycles,
by supporting efforts to better understand
environmental issues.
by establishing environmental management
processes
its
factories,
seeking
continuous
improvement
its
environmental management;
supporting
communication
and
cooperation
regarding
environmental
protection worldwide;
by supporting as much as possible any
personal or collective initiative that would
help reduce the impact of the Company’s
activities on the environment.
IBA is attentive to the impact of its activities,
products, and services on the environment and
takes measures to decrease its ecological
footprint, including initiatives to:
consume
less
energy
and
resources
(including promoting circular economy and
sustainable transport) through ecodesign
practices;
reduce emissions (in particular greenhouse
gas);
protect surrounding nature (substance of
concern
management,
ground
and
groundwater contamination, and biodiversity
protection surrounding our facilities); and
better manage waste (minimization and
recycling).
Within IBA, every employee is expected to
perform
his/her
job
with
environmental
awareness and to apply the principles of
prevention, precaution and rectification at
source.
Through its Code of Conduct for Suppliers, the
Company further encourages its major suppliers
to share its commitment to the environment and
to reduce the environmental impact of their
designs, manufacturing processes, waste, and
emissions.
Upstream, the IBA’s Articles of Associations now
specify in article 3 “(…) The Company's
objectives include having, in the course of its
activities, a significant positive impact on all of its
stakeholders, notably patients, shareholders,
employees, customers, society and the planet.
The Company is managed taking into account
the interests of these stakeholders, respecting
living beings and present and future generations,
and reducing as much as possible negative
environmental and societal impacts.”
Non-financial Indicators and Results
A system of formal reporting is described in the
Code of Business Conduct and encourages the
notification of practices that would not conform
to IBA’s environmental priorities.
Depending on the nature of their services,
certain suppliers are required to be ISO 14001
(Environmental Management) or ISO 50001
(Energy Management Systems) certified in order
to become an IBA supplier.
Risks and Risk Management
The November Sustainability Board focussed
amongst others on environmental risks and the
intention to work on an action plan for 2023 and
the
following
years.
Hence,
the
Risk
Management Committee will consider the
environmental risk as of 2023.
Anti-corruption and Bribery
Matters
Policy and Targets
IBA has as an objective to prevent and prohibit
bribes or any sort of corruption and as such, the
Company is compliant with the applicable anti-
corruption and bribery legislation.
IBA complies with anti-corruption and bribery
laws and enforces them, as well as the values
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
they contain, within the Company. In order to do
so, IBA has made corruption and anti-bribery
one of the key principles of its Code of Business
Conduct; bribery of any government official in
any country or of any private person as well as
corrupt practices are strictly against IBA’s policy,
even if refusing to make such payment would
result in the Company losing a business
opportunity.
As such, IBA, including its employees and
representatives, must not accept, neither
directly, nor through any family member or
anyone else, gifts or favours of any kind from a
business partner, or offer the same to the latter,
or to any public official, except if they are
courtesy gifts, considered as modest in value
and to the extent that the time and place is
appropriate.
In any case, such favours are prohibited if they
may affect or even appear to affect the integrity
or independence of the business partner, the
public official, IBA, or its employees. The duty of
integrity and trust are of primary importance
within the Company and any illegal or unethical
act would not be tolerated.
Through its Code of Conduct for Suppliers, the
Company moreover targets to work with third
parties that share its commitment to ethics and
that share its values of business integrity.
Hence, the target is to achieve the objective of
no IBA’s third-party providers, customers, and
partners involved in any corrupt practices.
Non-financial Indicators and Results
A two-phase plan is being implemented to
increase awareness and monitoring targets. The
first phase took place in 2020, with an in-depth
evaluation of IBA’s practices, the conduction of
a fraud risk assessment, and an update of a
number of internal processes. This evaluation
focused on key risk areas such as corruption,
asset misappropriation, financial statement
fraud, cyberfraud of theft of data, and contract
and procurement fraud. As a second phase,
informal training of employees is taking place on
a daily basis. A system of formal reporting is also
described in the Code of Business Conduct and
encourages the denunciation of such practices,
amongst
others
through
the
anonimous
whistleblower platform on the Company’s
website.
An external audit was carried out by the end of
the
year
2023,
check
the
level
implementation in IBA’s system. To mitigate
Cyber risk, several measures have already been
implemented and further measures will be
implemented. As of August 23, 2021, a Data
Protection Officer has been put in function
Risks and Risk Management
The risks and risk management of the anti-
corruption and bribery matters are described
above, in the dedicated Section “Principal Risks
and Uncertainties faced by the Company”
(Sections 3:6, 1, 1 to 3 and 3:32, 1, 1 to 3,
of the BCAC).In order to limit its bribery and
corruption risk, IBA is continuously identifying
the specific risks it could be exposed to by (i)
strictly analyzing third-party providers’ (with
whom we are working) reputation including anti-
money laundering due diligence, (ii) examining
transactions with governments or government
institutions and representatives, (iii) creating
new legal entities overseas with due diligence,
and
(iv)
educating
employees
through
communications and proper training.
Protection and Respect of Human
Rights
Policy and Targets
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights
defines human rights as rights inherent to all
human
beings,
regardless
race,
sex,
nationality, ethnicity, language, religion, or any
other status. Human rights include the right to life
and liberty, freedom from slavery and torture,
freedom of opinion and expression, the right to
work and education, and many more. Everyone
is entitled to these rights, without discrimination.
Respect of Human Rights is essential to ensure
a sustainable working environment for everyone.
It is also essential to act for a better world and it
is a part of how the Company wants to behave
and the values we want to be known for. To that
extent, IBA complies with all applicable local,
national, and international laws and regulations
dealing with or impacting Human Rights. The
relevant international sources we refer to are the
International Bill of Human Rights, UN Guiding
Principles on Business and Human Rights, and
the principles set out in the International Labor
Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
This Code of Business Conduct contains the
IBA’s policy regarding Human Rights. It
establishes the common principles applicable in
every market where IBA has activities.
The Company prohibits forced or indentured
labor, in all its forms. Employment agreements
are to be made on a voluntary basis, and every
employee receives regular payment for work and
an explanation on their pay slips. Moreover,
employees are, as per the applicable laws,
allowed
terminate
their
employment
relationship with reasonable notice. The rules
and regulations when it comes to – notably but
not limited to - working time, travel time, and time
recovery are respected.
IBA also prohibits the employment of children.
Every child has the right not to perform work that
is mentally, physically, socially, or morally
harmful or that interferes with his/her schooling.
IBA vets the age of all applicants prior to their
employment. We believe corporate compliance
is also demonstrated through elements,
including the Company’s 2021 B Corp (“Benefit
Corporation") certification .
Equal employment opportunities are offered to
all IBA employees. No discrimination is made on
any basis whatsoever. Decisions relating to
employment are solely based on the skills,
abilities, and performance of the employee.
Every IBA employee has the right to join a trade
union or any other organization. As per its “Equal
opportunity” principle, no one at IBA should ever
be subject to any kind of discrimination because
of accession to or creation of a trade union nor
because of the employee’s choice not to join or
create such group.
The right to a healthy and sustainable
environment is the cornerstone between Human
Rights
and
their
interaction
with
the
environment. It includes the environment’s
impact on many rights such as the right to life,
health,
food,
water,
sanitation,
property,
housing, private life, culture, development, and
non- discrimination. IBA is aware of the
importance of this right as our generation faces
a serious environmental crisis and associated
impact on Human Rights. The environment (“the
Planet”) is therefore included as one of the five
stakeholders of IBA and receives central
attention in the day-to-day work within the
Company.
Compliance with Human Rights is not only
required by IBA and its employees, but also from
its customers and suppliers. Through its Code of
Conduct for Suppliers, the Company ensures to
work with third parties that share its commitment
to Human Rights and that do not violate the
Human
Rights
their
employees.
All
consultants and other parties acting on behalf of
IBA are also expected to fully respect the Human
Rights of their employees, suppliers, and
customers. Ad hoc audits of selected suppliers
are carried out every year.
Non-financial Indicators and Results
As described hereabove, system of formal
reporting
(whistleblower
platform)
also
described in the Code of Business Conduct and
encourages the denunciation of practices that
would be contrary to IBA’s Human Rights policy.
In the event of a denunciation to the IBA, the
latter will promptly take appropriate measures: i)
to bring the situation back into conformity with
human rights, and ii) to prevent the repetition of
such a violation.
IBA is continuously assessing its suppliers to
ensure that their activities do not contribute to
the infringement of Human Rights. This
assessment is dependent on the nature of the
services that are required from the supplier and
on the geographical location of this supplier.
By 2023, all new IBA suppliers have recognized
and signed the Supplier Code of Conduct.
No incident with respect to Human Rights
relating to the IBA’s activities or decisions were
noticed in 2023.
A large majority of IBA’s facilities are accessible
to persons with reduced mobility. As an example,
the four main buildings in Louvain-la-Neuve are
fully adapted for such people. If necessary, a
constructive discussion is held with the person
with reduced mobility in order to guarantee him
or her a workspace where he or she can move
around as independently as possible.
Risks and Risk Management
The risks and risk management of the protection
and respect of Human Rights are described
above, in the dedicated Section “Principal Risks
and Uncertainties faced by the Company”
(Sections 3:6, 1, 1 to 3 and 3:32, 1, 1 to 3,
of the BCAC).
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Dealing code - code of conduct to
prevent insider dealing and
market abuse
The Company has a Dealing Code in place to
protect the Company and the market against
insider trading and market abuse. All employees
have access to the Code through the Company’s
website and a targeted group has received a
copy of this code. Furthermore, executives as
well as those employees that have continuous
access to sensitive financial data (“recurring
insiders”)
have
signed
the
Code
for
acknowledgment and consent.
Details of transactions by executives involving
the Company's shares are available in the
remuneration report.
The Dealing Code is available on the Company's
website
www.iba-worldwide.com,
the
following
page
https://iba-
worldwide.com/content/dealing-code
The closing periods for the year 2022 were:
from February 22, 2023, to March 23, 2023,
for the annual report;
from 1st August , 2023, to August 30, 2023,
for the mid-year report.
B Corp
By obtaining the B Corp certification on 1st of
April 2021, IBA joined a community of around
8000+ businesses globally, that promote strong
values of change, making companies "a force for
good" and highlighting those that reconcile profit
with societal purpose. The B Corps (“Benefit
Corporations”) are part of a movement to
transform businesses to contribute to a more
sustainable and inclusive economy and society.
The B Corp certification has been awarded to
IBA by B Lab, the non-profit organization behind
the B Corp movement worldwide. The rigorous
assessment of the company's business model
and operations demonstrates that IBA meets
some
the
highest
environmental,
transparency
and
social
responsibility
standards. This prestigious label, internationally
recognized as one of the most comprehensive
and demanding in its field, attests to IBA's
effective commitment to objectives that are
aimed at both the collective interest and
shareholder
profit.
The
performance
particularly remarkable for an international
industrial company of IBA's size.
The B Corp certification process covered all of
IBA's activities and assessed five main areas of
impact:
governance,
workers,
community,
environment and customers. The company was
able
demonstrate
socially
and
environmentally responsible practices in the
areas of energy, health, welfare, compensation,
diversity, transparency and more. At the end of
2023, IBA had a proforma score of 106+pts, 26
points higher than the reference score of 80,
required for certification. In accordance with B
Lab requirements, IBA has also modified its
articles of Association to formally integrate its
commitment to consider the consequences of its
activities and the interests of all stakeholders
(patients, shareholders, employees, customers,
suppliers, the community, the planet, etc.) in
social,
economic,
legal,
societal
and
environmental areas.
The B Corp certification was an important but
humble first step; IBA is becoming an
inspirational company for others, which brings
responsibility to us and inspiration to others.
Inspired by the findings along the B Corp
certification process, we mapped our strengths
and weaknesses as a company. From there, we
identified 4 strategic sustainability streams to
work on,with a third of company targets linked to
related B Corp objectives.
The 4 streams identified are a target to support
our 2024 B Corp recertification, but even more a
guidance book to build our sustainability journey.
From this, the 2023 variable targets for
Management and Opt-Ins are as follows: 33%
Order Intake, 33% PBT vs budget, and 34%
sustainability based on B Corp score.
The stream ‘low carbon, low waste products’
addresses the understanding and reduction of
the CO2 and waste impact of our products
across their life cycles and value chains.
Ecodesign workgroup is in place, with 220
people trained and challenges ongoing to
promote the 8 established IBA eco-design rules.
Based on life cycle analysis of main products
and activities, the IBA Group carbon footprint
has been assessed and allocated to the relevant
BU activities and products. Dialogue is engaged
with BU’s on sustainability in product extended
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
value proposition and action plans have been put
in place.
The stream ‘low carbon, low waste company’
addresses the monitoring of the group carbon
footprint, in view of making it neutral by 2030
(reducing and carbon contribution combined
through different action plans). It also addresses
the monitor and reduction of the group waste
footprint, in view of reducing the unsorted waste
by 2/3, by 2025. An environmental management
system EMS is in place. We have been ranked
at B score by CDP (from C in 2020). Our
warehouse has suppressed toxic packaging
(polyurethan) from its processes. We have set
an internal carbon price at 40€/ton with a
recommendation of 80€/ton as of 2024. We have
purchased 1700t of CO2 certificates from carbon
farming projects (Soil Capital). A green mobility
project is in place, based on employee survey, in
view of defining a lower impact, yet attractive,
mobility policy for our commuting employees.
The stream ‘diverse, equitable and inclusive
workplace’ aims to pro-actively incorporate
diversity, equality and inclusion into our business
as a major contributor to belonging. A number of
collective intelligence initiatives are in place such
sounding
board
involve
voluntary
employees into strategic, management, or day to
day initiatives such as ecodesign, biodiversity
protection, volunteering policy, or green mobility.
The
stream
‘company
accountable
sustainability’ addresses the policies and
practices
pertaining
our
mission,
accountability and transparency, and building a
sustainable supply chain, by screening our
suppliers societal and environmental impact. We
have achieved B Corp 2023 score of 106+pts
(proforma as measured by a 3rd party
verification interim report on B Corp progress).
34% of 2023 variable targets for Management
and Opt-Ins are linked to said B Corp score
increase. We have selected Ecovadis as our
service
provider
for
Supply
Chain
ESG
screening. And we closely survey the applicable
and
forthcoming
non-financial
reporting
regulations (GRI 2021, taxonomy, CSRD, due
diligence).
THE
NEW
AND
The legal landscape is still evolving and what is
presented today is a snapshot of the current
status. With respect to taxonomy, what must be
examined is 6 criteria versus IBA’s activities. If
within scope, then compliance is reported.
Today, IBA revenues do not fall within scope,
while some capital and operational expenditures
do. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a
non-financial reporting tool on a voluntary basis,
but which could become part of the mandatory
reporting obligations in the future. For 2023, no
changes are expected. However, as of reporting
year 2024 the corporate sustainability reporting
directive will become effective with subsequent
reporting obligations, but probably based on GRI
standards. The corporate sustainability due
diligence duties are still in draft form but may
come into effect as of 2025. IBA is well prepared
for
this
evolution
sustainability/finance
reporting.
Taxonomy
In order to achieve the EU's climate and energy
objectives for 2030 and to meet the objectives of
the European Green Deal, the EU Taxonomy
Regulation (EU) 2020/852 was established to
assess the sustainability of economic activities
taking into account the different circumstances
and obligations of the different economic actors.
It sets out six environmental objectives:
Mitigation of climate change
Adaptation to climate change
Sustainable use and protection of water
and marine resources
Transition to a circular economy
Pollution prevention and control
Protection and restoration of
biodiversity and ecosystems
Activities covered by the taxonomy are referred
to as taxonomy-eligible activities. For these
activities, the delegated acts that complete the
taxonomy define performance criteria for the
environmental objectives, as well as minimum
safeguards for the protection of human rights
and labor law. An activity is considered
taxonomy-aligned if it makes a substantial
contribution to one or more objectives, without
significantly undermining the other objectives,
and if it also complies with the defined minimum
safeguards.
Different means may be required for an activity
to make a substantial contribution to each
objective.
The
Taxonomy
Regulation
requires the disclosure of the percentage of
turnover,
capital
expenditure
(CapEx)
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
operational
expenditure
(OpEx)
that
taxonomy-eligible and aligned.
Taxonomy eligibility and alignment
A cross-functional taxonomy working group has
analysed IBA’s activities based on NACE code
(Nomenclature of Economic Activities) to identify
candidate activities and related financial data
related to taxonomy-eligible turnover, CapEx
and OpEx.
Turnover
The EU Taxonomy currently identifies eligible
activities among seven different sectors, as
making a substantial contribution to any of the
six environmental objectives. IBA core activities
are classified under NACE C26.6 (26600)
Manufacture of irradiation, electromedical and
electrotherapeutic equipment9). No portion of
IBA turnover is currently attributable to the
economic activities covered by the current
taxonomy.
Capital expenditure (CapEx)
In 2023, IBA taxonomy-eligible capital
expenditure relates to:
installation of bike shelter infrastructures
(taxonomy category 6.15)
installation of charging stations for electrical
vehicles (taxonomy category 7.4)
long term lease of hybrid (PHEV) and electric
vehicles (EV) (taxonomy category 6.5)
installation of photovoltaic renewable energy
production means (taxonomy category 7.6)
- upgrade of energy efficient equipments
(taxonomy category 7.3)
In analysis of these taxonomy-eligible activities,
IBA identifies the following as taxonomy-
aligned:
installation of bike shelter infrastructures
(taxonomy category 6.15)
installation of charging stations for electrical
vehicles (taxonomy category 7.4)
installation of photovoltaic renewable energy
production means (taxonomy category 7.6)
9https://ec.europa.eu/competition/mergers/cases/index/nace
_all.html
upgrade of energy efficient equipments
(taxonomy category 7.3)
When it comes to long term lease of hybrid
(PHEV) and electrical vehicles (EV), IBA
currently has limited insight into the full life cycle
of the said vehicles (materials production and
recyclability, consumables (such tires), waste
management) and acknowledges that more
information is needed to ensure that the
technical screening criteria are met. Hence, for
these taxonomy-eligible activities, IBA currently
deems them to be not taxonomy-aligned.
Operational expenditure
In 2023, IBA taxonomy-eligible operational
expenditure relates to:
bike lease program (taxonomy category 6.4)
maintenance of charging stations for electrical
vehicles (taxonomy category 7.4)
electricity expenses related to hybrid (PHEV)
and electric vehicles (EV) (taxonomy category
5)
maintenance
photovoltaic
renewable
energy production means (taxonomy category
6)
studies related to environmental solutions for
the treatment of forever chemicals in water
(Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances, PFAS)
(taxonomy category 5.4)
In analysis of these taxonomy-eligible activities,
IBA identifies the following as taxonomy-
aligned:
bike lease program (taxonomy category 6.4)
maintenance of charging stations for electrical
vehicles (taxonomy category 7.4)
maintenance
photovoltaic
renewable
energy production means (taxonomy category
6)
When it comes to the electricity expenses related
to hybrid (PHEV) and electric vehicles (EV), per
the same rationale as for the capital expenditure,
IBA
identically
acknowledges
that
more
information is needed about the full life cycle of
the said vehicles to ensure that the technical
screening criteria are met. IBA therefore deems
them to be not taxonomy-aligned.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
When
comes
studies
related
environmental solutions for the treatment of
forever chemicals (PFAS), IBA acknowledges
that more information is needed about the
benefits of such solutions to ensure that the
technical screening criteria are met. IBA
therefore deems them to be not taxonomy-
aligned.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Proportion of turnover from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure
covering year 2022/2023
Economic activities (1)
Code(s) (2)
Absolute of turnover (3)
Proportion of turnover (4)
Substantial contribution criteria
Criteria regarding DNSH
Minimum safeguards (17)
Taxonomy aligned proportion of
turnover, year 2023 (18)
Taxonomy aligned proportion of
turnover, year 2022 (19)
Category enabling activity (20)
Category transitional activity (21)
Climate change mitigation (5)
Climate change adaption (6)
Water and marine resources (7)
Circular economy (8)
Pollution (9)
Biodiversity and eco systems (10)
Climate change mitigation (11)
Climate change adaption (12)
Water and marine resources (13)
Circular economy (14)
Pollution (15)
Biodiversity and eco systems (16)
EUR
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES
1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)
Turnover of environmentally
sustainable activities
(Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)
0%
0%
0%
2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities
Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible
but not environmentally
sustainable activities (not
Taxonomy-aligned activities)
(A.2)
0%
Total (A.1 + A.2 = A)
0%
0%
0%
TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES
Turnover of Taxonomy-non-
eligible activities (B)
0%
Total (A+B)
0%
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Proportion of CapEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering
year 2022/2023
Economic activities (1)
Code(s) (2)
Absolute of CapEx (3)
Proportion of CapEx (4)
Substantial contribution criteria
Criteria regarding DNSH
Minimum safeguards
(17)
Taxonomy aligned
proportion of CapEx,
year 2023 (18)
Taxonomy aligned
proportion of CapEx,
year 2022 (19)
Category enabling
activity
(20)
Category transitional
activity
(21)
Climate change
mitigation (5)
Climate change
adaption (6)
Water and marine
resources (7)
Circular economy
(8)
Pollution (9)
Biodiversity and
eco systems (10)
Climate change
mitigation (11)
Climate change
adaption (12)
Water and marine
resources (13)
Circular economy
(14)
Pollution (15)
Biodiversity and
eco systems (16)
EUR
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES
1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)
Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road
transport and public transport
15
1%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
1%
0%
Installation, maintenance and repair of
charging stations for electric vehicles in
buildings (and parking spaces attached
to buildings)
4
8%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
8%
0%
Installation, maintenance and repair of
energy efficiency equipment
3
2%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
2%
0%
Installation, maintenance and repair of
renewable energy technologies
6
8%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
8%
0%
CapEx of environmentally
sustainable activities (Taxonomy-
aligned) (A.1)
1 200
9%
0%
0%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
9%
0%
2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities
Transport by motorbikes, passenger
cars and light commercial vehicles
5
3 234
2%
CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not
environmentally sustainable
activities (not Taxonomy-aligned
activities) (A.2)
3 234
2%
Total (A.1 + A.2 = A)
4 434
0%
0%
0%
TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES
CapEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible
activities (B)
10 834
0%
Total (A+B)
15 268
0%
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Proportion of OpEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering
year 2022/2023
Economic activities (1)
Code(s) (2)
Absolute of OpEx (3)
Proportion of OpEx (4)
Substantial contribution criteria
Criteria regarding DNSH
Minimum safeguards
(17)
Taxonomy aligned
proportion of OpEx,
year 2023 (18)
Taxonomy aligned
proportion of OpEx,
year 2022 (19)
Category enabling
activity
(20)
Category transitional
activity
(21)
Climate change
mitigation (5)
Climate change
adaption (6)
Water and marine
resources (7)
Circular economy
(8)
Pollution (9)
Biodiversity and
eco systems (10)
Climate change
mitigation (11)
Climate change
adaption (12)
Water and marine
resources (13)
Circular economy
(14)
Pollution (15)
Biodiversity and
eco systems (16)
EUR
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
Y/N
TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES
1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)
Operation of personal mobility devices,
cycle logistics
4
5%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5%
0%
Installation, maintenance and repair of
energy efficiency equipment
3
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
0%
0%
Installation, maintenance and repair of
charging stations for electric vehicles in
buildings
(and parking spaces attached to
buildings)
4
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
0%
0%
OpEx of environmentally sustainable
activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)
5%
0%
0%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
5%
0%
2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities
Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars
and light commercial vehicles
5
3%
Renewal of waste water collection and
treatment
4
1%
OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not
environmentally sustainable activities
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2)
3%
Total (A.1 + A.2 = A)
8%
0%
0%
TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES
OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible
activities (B)
126 990
2%
Total (A+B)
128 024
0%
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Other taxonomy informations
Per the delegated regulation obligations article 8
annex II, IBA reports that no activity is
attributable to the nuclear energy and fossil gas
sectors.
Non-financial activities report (sections 3:6, 4,
and 3:32, 2, of the BCAC)
IBA SA releases a statement on its non-financial
activities. This non-financial statement has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: GRI
1: Foundation 2021.
(https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/).
Part of this non-financial information is mentioned in
the previous section and completed by information
included in the GRI appendix section. Please refer to
the GRI content index at the end of the present report.
Consolidated annual financial statement
(sections 3 :23, 3 :31 and 3 :32, of the BCAC)
IBA reported a 18.7% increase in revenues to
EUR 428.7 million during 2023 (2022: EUR
3 million), which is shown with a growth on
both equipments and services sales. Despite a
slow backlog conversion for Proton Therapy, the
revenue of other accelerators increased thanks
Delegated regulation obligations, article 8 annex II Template 1 Nuclear and fossil gas related activities
Activity
IBA
Nuclear energy related activities
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration
and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear
processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new
nuclear installations to produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district
heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades,
using best available technologies.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear
installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district
heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as
their safety upgrades.
Fossil gas related activities
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity
generation facilities that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and
operation of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and
operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
to a streghtened backlog conversion in H2. We
also see a good order intake for Other
Accelerators, as well as continued growth for
Dosimetry.
For the year ended on December 31, 2023, the
Group
gross
margin
(31.4%)
worsened
compared to 2022 (35.1%) following inflation
and lower overhead absorption. The previous
year performance was also positively impacted
by indemnities related to the Rutherford’s
bankruptcy.
As of December 31, 2023, the Group operating
expenses were EUR 128.0 million, a 10.6%%
increase from 2022 (2022: EUR 115.7 million).
Despite efficient control of overhead costs,
careful spending and IBA’s cost control
measures, the increase is to be observed on all
three types of expenses and reflects the
conditions of the general macro-economic
environment, however the increase is mainly to
be seen on Research and Development which
went up by 14.5%; this demonstrates the
strategic efforts that IBA is making on both
operating segments to maintain its technological
leadership in all business lines.
Recurring operating profits before interest and
taxes (REBIT10) decreased from a gain of EUR
1 million in 2022 to a gain of EUR 6.4million,
reflecting the current inflation and factors related
to the current macro-economic environment,
coupled with one off indemnities related to the
Rutherford’s bankruptcy in 2022.
For the year-ended December 31, 2023, the
other operating result (profit) was EUR -1.2
million (2022: EUR -6.1 million) ; it mainly
includes some reorganisation expenses for EUR
5 million and the costs incurred for the Stock
Option plan for EUR 1.0 million, offset by a net
gain on the contribution in kind of the IP to the
group’s new Joint Venture Pantera for EUR 2.2
million (net of other investors interests). The
reorganization expenses mostly relate to the
discontinuation of the Dynamitron line of
business in the US. This was a non-major
business for IBA and Management decided to re-
focus the efforts on developing its other
sterilization devices.
For the year-ended on December 31, 2023, the
financial result (expenses) was EUR -5.2million
(2022: EUR -5.4 million expenses). In 2023,
despite decreasing interests payments and
improved foreign currency impacts (realised and
un-realised gains and losses as well as change
in fair value of derivatives), the group was
strongly impacted by the effects of hyperinflation
in Argentina.
As at December 31, 2023, the Group recognises
a tax expense for an amount of EUR -8.8 million
representing -2792.1% of the profit before tax.
The tax charge results from margin recognised
in some countries with a relatively high tax rate
as well as a partial reversal of the deferred tax
assets.
As a result of the above effects, IBA reported a
net loss of EUR -9.1 million down from a gain of
EUR 6.1 million in the prior year.
The Group’s non-current assets amount to EUR
5 million, increased by EUR 22.1 million
during the 2023 financial year, essentially due to
the following effects:
An increase of the goodwill and intangible
assets for EUR 5.6 million driven by
additional development costs on internally
developped softwares and the capitalisation
of the costs incurred by IBA in the
compliance effort to renew a licence to sell
medical devices in Europe in line with the
10 For more details on REBIT, refer to Note 15 of the
consolidated financial statements
new European Medical Device Regulation
for EUR 3.7 million; The goodwill at the end
of 2023 (EUR 10.2 million) relates to the
Dosimetry business as well as the newly
acquired business of Fluidomica in Portugal;
An increase of tangible assets (used and
leased) for EUR 3.4 million representing
more investments on the facilities with new
solar carports and EV charging stations, as
well as renewal of the car fleet.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
An increase of the value of equity accounted
investments by EUR 18.0 million following
the additional contributions in kind to the
capital of the Joint Venture PanTera with a
machine to be built and IP.
An increase of the receivables with Joint
Venture following the issuance of a new
convertible loan to PanTera for EUR 1.0
million;
The increase of the Research tax credit
receivable in Belgium by EUR 1.1 million
Offset by
A reduction of the fair value of the group’s
investment by EUR -1.4 million following the
financial
difficulties
HIL
Applied
Technologies, offset by an investment in
InvestBW.
A reduction of the deferred tax assets by
EUR -2.6 million mainly driven by changes
in the operating losses recoverability
following the new strategic plan;
The reclassification to current assets of the
portion of some bonds and receivables that
will become due in 2024 for EUR -3.1 million
Current assets amount to EUR 452.0 million at
the end of 2023 and have decreased by EUR -
4 million.
The main factor of this decrease are:
A decrease of cash and cash equivalents by
EUR -49.1 million to maintain a high balance
of EUR 109.3 million at December 31, 2023.
A decrease of other receivables by EUR -
5 million which were impacted by the
release of cash rapatriated from Russia
which temporarely blocked by the belgian
authorities in 2022 for EUR -7.3 million,
decrease of deposits by EUR -9.9 million
and the decrease accured income on
service contracts for EUR -6.0 million and
the deposit.
A decrease of the trade receivable by EUR -
1 million due to a high level of significant
milestone completion at the end of 2022;
Offset by:
An increase of the inventories and contract
in progress by EUR 28.6 million:
an increase of work in progress for EUR 2.8
million,
an increase of raw material and supplies for
EUR 28.5 million,
an increase of the write-off on inventories for
EUR -2.3 million.
Non-current liabilities decreased by EUR -8.1
million to close with a balance of EUR 38.7
million at end of 2023. This decrease is mainly
attributable to the following factors:
long-term borrowings decreased by EUR -
6 million due to reclassifications of the
portion of the remaining facilities due in 2024
for EUR -3.7 million to short term liabilities.
Other long term liabilities have decreased by
EUR
-2.9
million
mainly
due
reclassifications to current liabilities;
Long term provisions have decreased by
EUR -1.2 million;
The fair value of the derivative instruments
used for cash flow hedging purpose have
decreased by EUR -1.0 million;
Offset by
An increase of the long term lease liabilities
by EUR 1.1 million, the main movements of
the year are:
new lease liabilities under IFRS 16 for EUR
3 million.
the accretion of interests for EUR 0.6
million;
the reclassification to short-term of a
portion of the lease liabilities of EUR -7.7
million;
Current liabilities amounted to EUR 452.6 million
at the end of 2023, with an decrease of EUR -8.6
million compared to 2022. The following
elements are to be noted:
The contract liabilities have decreasd by
EUR -12.7 million thanks to backlog
conversion but also a high level of invoicing
was to be noted at the end of 2023.
The fair value of the derivative instruments
used for cash flow hedging purpose have
decreased by EUR -2.4 million
The short-term borrowing have increased by
EUR 2.7 million, due to an administrative
delay processing the reimbursement of the
R.IW loans on the closing date. Short-
term borrowings of EUR 6.5 million at the
end of 2023 include the short-term portion of
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
R.I.W. loan of EUR 2.7 million, and the
short-term portion of S.F.P.I. loan of EUR 1
million as well as the unpaid portion of 2023.
Short-term provisions amount to EUR 8.8
million at the end of 2023, increased by EUR
1 million. The total provisions (short-term
and long-term) remained stable despite the
following main changes:
An increase of the warranty provisions for
EUR 0.6 million
A decrease of the other provision (onerous
contract mainly) for EUR -1.1 million following
the revision of costs and synergies to be
reached
Other short-term payables at the end of 2023
amount to EUR 68.9 million which represents a
decrease of EUR -6.7 million compared to 2022.
This decrease is mainly explained by the
decrease of non-trade payables by EUR -6.4
million, the decrease of other current liabilies for
EUR -3.8 million which includes the release of
the refund liability of EUR -5.0 million. The
performance bond with CGNTT was recognised
as a refund liability until the uncertainty
associated with the variable consideration is
resolved, and it was agreed in December 2023
to cancel completely the performance bond.
The other short-term payables are also impacted
by the increase of social debts for EUR 2.4
million, and by the increase of deferred income
for EUR 2.1 million
The income tax payable increase by EUR 2.1
million.
Trade payables have increased by EUR 11.0
million which reflects the increase orders on
stock and inventories.
The Group's cash and cash equivalents
presented in the cash-flow statement decreased
by EUR -49.1 million in 2023, mainly due to:
a negative operating cash-flow of EUR -19.8
million mainly related to the change of
working capital for EUR -16.9 million and the
net loss of EUR -9.1 million;
Negative financing cash-flow of EUR -14.4
million
related
the
repayment
borrowings and lease liabilities for EUR -7.5
million (mainly lease liabilities), the dividend
paid for EUR -6.1 million and;
Negative investing cash-flow of EUR -13.3
million mainly related to acquisitions of
tangible and intangible assets of EUR -12.3
million and the convertible loan issued to
PanTera for EUR -1.0 million.
Net financial cash decreased by EUR -49.8
million from EUR 117.5 million at the end of 2022
to EUR 67.7 million at the end of 2023.
Research and development
Research and development expenses related to
the Group's businesses amounted to EUR 51.3
million (12.0% of sales) in 2023 less EUR 3.4
million of research tax credit.
At IBA, research expenses are recognized
directly in the income statement. For BE GAAP
purposes, development costs are recognised as
intangible assets and amortised linearly over 3
years, on a prorata temporis basis while
research
expenses
are
capitalised
and
expensed in the same year (2023 : EUR 54.5
million recognised and partially amortised for
EUR 11.7 million), in accordance with the
accounting policies disclosed in the notes to the
annual accounts of IBA SA.
These significant investments enable the
Company to remain among the world leaders in
all the markets in which it operates.
Capital increases and issues of stock options
and convertible bonds – section 7:203 of the
BCAC
In 2023, IBA did not proceed with any share
capital increases. IBA did not issue a new share
option plan, however the group issued new stock
options under the existing plan started in 2021.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
These are further detailed in the General
Information – Capital Section.
Repurchase of own shares - section 7:215 of
the BCAC
As of 31 December 2023, article 9, first
paragraph of the Company’s Articles of
Associations provided as follows: "The Company
may, without any further decision of the general
assembly, acquire its own shares, profit shares
certificates,
accordance
with
legal
conditions (articles 7: 215 et seq. of the BCAC)
in one or more transactions, up to a maximum of
twenty percent (20%) of the total number of
issued securities concerned, for a minimum
equivalent of ten cents (0,10 EUR) and a
maximum of twenty percent (20%) higher than
the last share price. This authorization is granted
for a renewable period of five years starting on
the date of publication of this statutory
authorization (or of its renewal).(…)”
During financial year 2023, IBA SA did not buy
additional own shares. As of December 31,
2023, IBA SA held 1 100 781 treasury shares
and IBA Investments SCRL, 51 973 shares.
IBA SA statutory accounts and appropriation of
net result (section 3:6 of the BCAC)
In 2023, IBA SA reported a profit of EUR 13.8
million compared to a loss of EUR 14.5 million in
2022, representing an improvement of EUR 28.4
million, as described in the following paragraphs.
Operating income (excluding other extraordinary
income) increased substantially year-on-year,
from EUR 346.1 million in 2022 to EUR 449.4
million in 2023, predominantly due to an
increased level of activity.
The operating profit amounted to EUR 17.3
million in 2023 against a loss of EUR -6.6 million
in 2022, a net increase of EUR 23.9 million. This
is again driven by a higher activity level, hence
higher gross margin, but also by higher
investments by the company to remain ready for
the future, which partially offsets the postive
trend in the margin.
Operating expenses increased by EUR 81.6
million in 2023 to EUR 434.3 million. The
operating expenses among others include the
cost of goods and services sold, which increased
alongside the operating income. Other important
increases can be found in the salaries and
remuneration which is mainly driven by the index
adjustment beginning of the year.
The R&D expenditure of EUR 55.7 million in
2023 (EUR 46.7 million in 2022) is capitalized.
Development expenditure up to and including
2022 was capitalized and depreciated over three
years,
while
research
expenses
were
depreciated immediately in the year of the
expenditure.
For
the
expenditure
Development (EUR 51.8 million), as from 2023
onwards, depreciation is done pro rate temporis
on a monthly basis, respectively over 36 months,
starting the month following the expenditure. For
Research (EUR 3.9 million) expenditure is
depreciated within the year.
IBA presented a financial profit of EUR 0.6
million compared to a loss of EUR -7.2 million in
The profit of 2023 is mostly the result of a
dividend received from the Chinese subsidiary
(amounting to EUR 13.8 million); the other
categories of cost include interest expenses,
foreign exchange impacts, and bank charges.
The operational perspectives of IBA SA remain
positive.
At the end of 2023, the Company had ten
branches, in the following locations: Prague,
Czech Republic; Orsay, France; Krakow,
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Poland; Trento, Italy; Seoul; South Korea
Uppsala, Sweden; Groningen, Netherlands;
Newport, United Kingdom; Madrid, Spain, and
Dublin, Ireland.. The South Korean branch will
be dissolved in 2024. The branches were
established as part of the Company’s Proton
Therapy business (section 3:6, 1, 5, of the
BCAC).
The 2023 profit amounts to EUR 13.8 million, the
profit carried forward from the previous years is
EUR 119.0 million, making a total profit for
appropriation of EUR 132.8 million.
An unavailable reserve for the own shares needs
to be recognised, impact of EUR 12.7 million –
this increased the Retained Earnings to the
amount mentioned above with EUR 4.5 million
(share price decreased compared to end of
2022).
IBA’s Board of Directors proposes to the General
Assembly to distribute a dividend of EUR 5.0
million, and to carry forward the remaining
amount (EUR 132.6 million) to the next financial
year.
Intangible Assets
Investments in intangible assets
Intangible assets amounted to EUR 69.0 million
per December 31, 2023 compared to EUR 46.4
million per December 31, 2022. These intangible
assets relate mainly to:
Research and Development costs for EUR
7 million. The net amount is higher
because of the change in Depreciation (cf.
next paragraph) and the increased spend
compared to 2022.
Intangible assets under construction for a
net worth of EUR 9.0 million which includes
development costs related to Product
Lifecycle Management and the EU Medical
Device Regulation.
In accordance with the Royal Decree of
December 15, 2015, research costs have been
capitalized and amortized over the year since
January 1, 2016. Development costs in 2023
were, as mentioned before, as from 2023
onwards depreciated monthly on a pro rata
temporis basis (36 months). For research costs
all expenditure was depreciated within the year.
Investments in tangible assets
Tangible fixed assets represent EUR 29.7 million
as of December 31, 2023. The increase of EUR
4 million year-on-year is mainly related to
investments for a total amount of EUR 4.3
million,
among
others
building-related
expenditure (such as solar panels), installations
and IT equipment (such as laptops), offset by
EUR -2.8 million of depreciation of existing and
newly acquired assets in operation.
Financial fixed assets
Financial fixed assets amount to EUR 160.4
million in 2023 compared to EUR 139.0 million in
2022, a net increase of EUR 21.4 million. This
increase is mainly the result of the following
events: a subsequent capital increase in the
Joint Venture with SCK-CEN, PanTera NV, for
an amount of EUR 20.4 million and a convertible
loan with the same JV for EUR 1.0 million.
Besides these transactions, IBA wrote off the
4% (USD 2 million, EUR 1.8 million) stake in
HIL Applied Medical Ltd, an Israelian developer
of laser-based proton therapy systems. And IBA
invested a further EUR 1.6 million in Invest BW,
a regional venture capital partner that is
providing financing and support to entrepreneurs
in Walloon Brabant (cf. paragraph 5.5).
The participations in affiliated companies (EUR
4 million), contain among others the
participation in the affilated company IBA
Russia. In paragraph 2.1 we have analyzed the
impact of the EU sanctions on the control of IBA
SA on its Russian subsidiary, and the indicators
of asset impairment the conflict may raise.
Besides the investments in affiliated companies,
IBA SA also holds equity investments in some
companies:
A 39.8% (EUR 6.1 million) stake in NHa SA, a
French company active in the development of
a carbon therapy treatment system
A 33% stake in Cyclhad, a French company
active in treatment of patients using Proton
Therapy. The short term outlook for this entity
remains identical as in 2021, the impairment
on both investment and subordinated loan for
a total of EUR 3.0 million is maintained.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
A 50% stake in PanTera NV, a Joint-Venture
with
SCK-CEN
(StudieCentrum
voor
Kernenergie - Centre d’tude de l’nergie
Nuclaire), the Belgian nuclear research
centre based in Mol, with a contribution to the
share capital of EUR 20.4 million. The JV will
be active in the nuclear medicine, more
specifically it will develop, produce and
distribute the isotope Ac.225.
A receivable of EUR 1.5 million on NHa SA
and EUR 1 million on PanTera NV.
Long-term receivables
Long-term receivables amounted to EUR 21.1
million at end of 2023, a small decrease when
compared to the end of 2022 (EUR 21.4 million).
The decrease of EUR -0.3 million is mainly due
to a decrease of miscellaneous long-term
receivables for an amount of EUR -1.2 million,
which includes a long-term receivable on a
Proton Therapy Centre in Italy as well as the
long-term portion of a commercial receivable on
a Chinese customer, compensated by a higher
receivable (increase with EUR 1.1 million) of a
tax
credit
received
for
Research
and
Development activities (‘CIRD’). Given these
R&D activities increased compared to last year,
the tax credit also increased.
Current assets
Inventories and work/contracts in
progress
Inventories and contracts in progress amounted
to EUR 168.1 million in 2023 compared to EUR
2 million in 2022. Supplies and work in
progress increased by EUR 30.1 million.
Contracts in progress decreased from EUR 66.7
million to EUR 58.5 million. The overall increase
of the inventories is the result of the significant
ramp-up of activities after the two covid-years
2020 and 2021, which is also visible in the
operating income.
Since 2016, the amounts of contracts in progress
and down-payments received on such contracts
are shown as a net position at the level of each
project whereby the ones with a down-payment
that is lower than the contract in progress value
are shown as a net ‘contract in progress’ position
under this section.
Short-term receivables
Short-term receivables decreased with EUR -
5 million from EUR 181.6 million in 2022 to
EUR 133.1 million in 2023. This decrease is on
the one side driven by a decrease of the Trade
Accounts Receivable section, decrease of EUR
-32.0 million, in which predominantly the
intercompany receivables decreased (EUR -
8 million).
The other receivables, on the other side,
amounting to EUR 13.5 million, decreased with
EUR -16.5 million a/o because of the release of
a 7.3 million payment from the Russian
subsidiary that had temporarily been blocked by
the Belgian authorities as part of a review
measure
under
the
current
embargo
environment and the write-off of a EUR 3.3
million receivable on an affiliated company that
has been liquidated in January 2024.
Cash investments
Cash investments amounted to EUR 12.7 million
at the end of 2023 and correspond to treasury
shares.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents amount to EUR 63.3
million as per the end of 2023 which is an
increase compared to prior year-end balance of
EUR 24.5 million. The main drivers for this
increase are the general increase of activity
which absorbs more working capital offset by the
release of an investment in short-term deposits
(EUR 50 million in 2022).
Cut-off accounts
The assets-side cut-off accounts decreased
year-on-year with EUR -1.6 million, to a balance
per the end of 2023 of EUR 15.9 million. These
accounts are used to ensure that revenues and
charges are correctly cut off at year-end.
Liabilities
Shareholders equity
Share capital and share premium
The subscribed capital is EUR 42.5 million as per
December 31, 2023. Share premiums amount to
EUR 43.5 million. Both subscribed capital and
share premium remained unchanged compared
to 2022.
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
IBA SA currently has four stock option plans in
place, fully subscribed per December 31, 2023.
The plans for 2014 and 2015 expire on June 30,
In June 2020, a stock option plan was
issued comprising medium-term options as well
as long-term options: medium-term options
expire on June 30, 2026; long-term options
expire on June 30, 2030. In January 2021
another stock option plan was issued for
medium-term stock options expiring December
For the last 2020 and 2021 stock option
plans, no new shares will be created; these will
be settled by means of own shares acquired by
the company.
The allocation of the result proposed to the
General Meeting is as follows:
Addition to the legal reserve for an
amount of EUR 0.02 million
Decrease of the unavailable reserve for
own shares for an amount of EUR -4.5
million (decreasing the reserve built up
in prior years);
Decrease of an unavailable reserve for
an amount of EUR 0.2 million;
Distribution of a dividend of EUR 5.0
million
Profit carried forward for the financial
year 2022 of EUR 132.6 million
Own shares
IBA SA holds 1.100.781 treasury shares as per
December 31, 2023, compared to 1.110.781 in
The value of these treasury shares
amounts to EUR 12.7 million as per December
31, 2023.
Provisions for risks and charges
Provisions for risks and charges equivalent to
EUR 10.1 million in 2023 compared to EUR 11.0
million in 2022. These mainly correspond to
provisions for technical and order fulfilment
guarantees as well as for the stock option plans
issued.
Long-term financial debts
Amounts payable after more than one year in
2023 amount to EUR 216.8 million compared to
EUR 212.4 million in 2022, a net decrease of
EUR 4.4 million:
Bank debts and other long-term financial
debts decreased by EUR -4.4 million and
amount to EUR 15.8 million. The remaining
amount includes:
loan from the S.R.I.W. (EUR 5.2 million) and
SFPI (EUR 1.9 million). The decrease
compared to last year mainly relates to the
portions of the SRIW loan (EUR 2.6 million)
and SFPI loan (EUR 0.9 million) which will be
reimbursed within the year 2023.
Finance lease debt (EUR 8.7 million).
Long-term down payments received on
orders amounted to EUR 199.0 million in
2023 compared to EUR 179.2 million in

Other debts amount to EUR 2.0 million and
generally relate to repayable advances.
Short-term debts
Debts within one year represent EUR 197.3
million in 2023 compared to EUR 225.0 million in
2022:
Long-term debts maturing in the year amount
to EUR 9.3 million in 2023 (this is among
others the current portion of the long-term
loans with SRIW and SFPI)
Trade payables represent EUR 82.0 million
in 2023, a minor increase of EUR 1.8 million
compared to 2022
Short-term
down
payments
orders
decreased compared to 2022: in 2023 they
amount to EUR 71.8 million against EUR
1 million in 2022
Tax and social debts decreased (EUR 25.9
million) which is EUR 2.4 million below the
prior year debts (EUR 28.3 million in 2022)
Other debts mainly include the dividend for
the year to be distributed (EUR 5.0 million).
IBA – Annual Report 2023
IBA
Financial instruments (article 3:6, 1, 8, of the
BCAC)
The main financial instruments consist of inter-
company loans, bank loans, bank balances, and
bank and / or intragroup deposits. The main
objective of these financial instruments is to raise
funds for the financing of the activities of the
company.
The Company also has other financial assets
and liabilities such as trade receivables and
payables, which arise directly from its activity.
In addition, the Company also has external
foreign exchange contracts which are entered
into at the level of the Company for the purpose
of hedging operations against foreign exchange
risks
assets,
liabilities
specific
transactions, committed or to come, in gross
terms.
General financial risk management policy
focuses on the unpredictability of financial
markets and attempts to minimize potential
negative effects on financial results. IBA uses
derivative financial instruments to hedge its
exposure to certain risks.
Financial risk management is carried out by a
central treasury department (Group Treasury).
Rules are in place which establish written
principles for the management of financial risks
as well as written rules covering specific areas,
such as currency risk, the use of derivative and
non-derivative financial instruments and the
investment of excess liquidity. The Group's
Treasury identifies, assesses and covers
financial risks in close cooperation with the
Company.
More details on the management of financial
risks are available in the chapter “FINANCIAL
RISKS (ARTICLES 3: 6, 1, 8 AND 3:32, 1,
5, OF THE BCAC)” of the consolidated financial
statements, see page 162.
Significants acquisitions and divestments in
In Febrary 2023, the group acquired Fluidomica
LD.A. This entity produces Target Solutions for
Medical Radioisopes Market.
IBA also acquired a minority stake in Invest.BW
A, a venture capital partner supporting the
economic development in the Walloon Region.
In 2023, Management has also decided to re-
focus the efforts of the Industrial business on the
Rhodotron, as a result, the group closed the
legacy Dynamitron business.
General outlook for 2024
IBA delivered a solid performance in the second
half of 2023, resulting in a positive REBIT margin
for the full year, as expected. Looking ahead, the
Group
anticipates
continued
positive
development in revenues and margins across all
business units. Targeted investment for the
future growth of the business will continue with a
focus
investment
into
sustainability,
digitalization and innovation. IBA’s supply chain
remains
under
control,
with
inflationary
pressures closely monitored. The balance sheet
remains strong, providing the Group with
significant flexibility for both organic and
inorganic growth.
IBA reiterates its previously announced mid-term
guidance, based on the assumption that macro-
economic factors normalize over the coming
years: supply chain issues stabilize, inflation
drops towards 3%, and challenges accessing
certain regions reduce. In addition, guidance is
on the basis that order intake remains solid,
especially in the Proton Therapy and Industrial
Solutions businesses. As a reminder, subject to
these factors, IBA, expects:
IBA – Annual Report 2023

15% CAGR 2022-2026 on revenues, nearly
doubling revenues over the next four years
REBIT on sales will reach around 10% by
2026, delivered gradually and weighted to
after 2024, as the current macro-economic
effects
wane
and
operating
leverage
accelerates with volume
CAPEX will be around EUR 10-12 million
per year until 2026 to support increased
investment in infrastructure, innovation,
sustainability and digitalization to maintain
IBA’s leading offering and invest in its future
growth
Management report
IBA SA annual financial statement (section 3:1 of the BCAC)
IBA – Annual Report 2021

In accordance with sections 3:23 et 3:32, 1 of
the Belgian Companies & Associations’ Code,
the
following
statements
represent
abbreviated version of the annual financial
statements. The full text is available on request
at the headquarters of the Company and will be
filed with the National Bank of Belgium. This
abbreviated version does not contain all the
appendices and the auditor’s report, who
expressed an unqualified opinion.
IBA – Annual Report 2021

ASSETS (EUR 000)
213 636
258 999
Formation expenses
Intangible fixed assets
46 367
68 968
Tangible fixed assets
28 249
29 671
Land and buildings
10 742
11 978
Plant, machinery, and equipment
2 139
2 313
Furniture and vehicles
2 173
2 372
Leases and similar rights
12 139
11 717
Assets under construction and advance payments
1 056
1 291
Financial assets
139 020
160 360
Affiliated companies
129 217
129 400
Other investments
7 885
29 285
Others financial assets
1 918
1 675
472 649
414 130
Accounts receivable in more than one year
21 418
21 120
Inventories and contracts in progress
146 166
168 061
Inventories
79 474
109 560
Contracts in progress
66 692
58 501
Accounts receivable within one year
181 569
133 077
Trade receivables
151 536
119 536
Other receivables
30 033
13 541
Investments
67 219
12 703
Cash at bank and in hand
38 723
63 255
Deferred charges and accrued income
17 554
15 914
686 285
673 129
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY (EUR 000)
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
229 528
237 405
Capital stock
42 502
42 502
Capital surplus
43 478
43 478
Revaluation gains
Reserves
21 653
16 953
Legal reserve
4 231
4 250
Reserves not available for distribution
17 219
12 703
Untaxed reserves
Retained earnings
118 983
132 566
Capital grants
2 912
1 906
11 009
10 089
445 748
425 635
Accounts payable in more than one year
212 442
216 779
Financial debts
20 183
15 785
Advances received on contracts in progress
179 190
199 027
Other accounts payable
13 069
1 967
Accounts payable within one year
225 017
197 029
Financial debts - current portion of long-term financial debts
6 759
9 265
Financial debts – current
2 528
Trade debts
80 193
82 033
Advances received on contracts in progress
98 116
71 788
Current tax and payroll liabilities
28 320
25 946
Other accounts payable
11 629
5 469
Accrued charges and deferred income
8 289
11 827
686 285
673 129
IBA – Annual Report 2021

INCOME STATEMENT (EUR 000)
Operating income
346 061
449 393
Turnover
217 637
311 910
Work in progress, finished goods and contracts in progress
11 544
-5 041
Capitalized production
46 737
55 683
Other operating income
70 143
86 841
Other extraordinary income
Operating expenses (-)
-352 653
-434 296
Raw materials, consumables, and goods for resale
-92 379
-157 715
Services and other goods
-116 798
-130 425
Salaries, social security, and pensions
-89 779
-102 226
Depreciation and write-offs on fixed assets
-45 615
-42 979
Increase/(Decrease) in write-downs on inventories, work in progress, and
trade debtors
-1 239
Provisions for liabilities and charges
-1 306
Other operating expenses
-5 953
Other extraordinary expenses
Operating profit/loss)
-6 592
15 097
Financial income
14 530
22 467
Income from financial assets
Income from current assets
2 157
15 044
Other financial income
12 373
7 423
Extraordinary financial income
Financial expenses (-)
-21 686
-21 848
Interest expense
-1 046
Amounts written off on current assets other than inventories, work in
progress and trade debtors - increase (decrease)
Other financial charges
-13 633
-11 335
Extraordinary financial expenses (-)
-7 101
-9 467
Profit/(loss) for the period before taxes
-13 748
15 716
Income taxes (-) (+)
-1 871
Profit/(loss) for the period
-14 521
13 845
Transfers to tax free reserves (-)
Profit/(loss) for the period available for appropriation
-14 521
13 845
APPROPRIATION OF RESULTS (EUR 000)
Profit/(Loss) to be appropriated
130 807
132 828
Profit/(loss) for the period available for appropriation
-14 521
13 845
Profit/(Loss) carried forward
145 328
118 983
Transfers to capital and reserves
On capital stock and capital surplus
From reserves
Appropriations to capital and reserves
To capital stock and capital surplus
To legal reserve
To other reserves
5 698
-4 699
Profit/(Loss) to be carried forward
118 983
132 566
Profit to distribute
6 126
4 961
Dividends
6 126
4 961
IBA – Annual Report 2021

Amount (EUR
000)
Number of
shares
Amount (EUR
000)
Number of
shares
Capital
Issued capital
At the end of the previous financial year
42 413
42 502
Changes during the financial year
84 798
At the end of the current financial year
42 502
42 502
Structure of the capital
1. Categories of shares
Ordinary shares without designation of face value
24 412
17 516 229
24 412
17 516 229
Ordinary shares without designation of face value with WPR strips
18 001
12 702 489
18 001
12 702 489
2 Registered or bearer shares
Registered shares
8 145 467
8 145 467
Bearer shares
22 073 251
22 073 251
Own shares held by
The Company itself
1 559
1 110 781
1 545
1 100 781
Its subsidiaries
51 973
51 973
Stock issue commitments
Following exercise of share options
Number of outstanding share options
1 115 682
1 156 231
Amount of capital to be issued
Maximum number of shares to be issued
83 500
Amount of non-issued authorized capital
IBA – Annual Report 2021

1 Statement of consolidated financial position as at
December 31, 2023
Consolidated income statement for the year ended
December 31, 2023
Consolidated statement of other comprehensive
income for the year ended December 31, 2023
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the
year ended December 31, 2023
Consolidated cash flow statement for the year
ended December 31, 2023
Notes
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Statement of consolidated financial position as
at December 31, 2023
(EUR 000)
Note
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
ASSETS
Goodwill and other intangible assets
1.
17 840
23 396
Property, plant and equipment and Right-of-use assets
2.
46 068
49 465
Investments accounted for using the equity method
4.
18 304
Other investments
5.
3 805
2 438
Deferred tax assets
7.2.
20 211
17 627
Non-current derivative financial assets
3.
Other non-current receivable and operating assets
7.
35 184
33 743
Non-current assets
123 423
145 483
Inventories
6.
101 017
130 545
Contract assets
3.1.
39 391
38 444
Trade receivables
7.1.
111 649
107 576
Other current assets and receivables
7.
89 893
65 435
Current derivative financial assets
3.
Cash and cash equivalents
8.
158 366
109 306
Current assets
500 476
452 045
623 899
597 528
Share capital and Share premium
85 980
85 980
Reserves and Retained earnings
9.
29 971
20 232
EQUITY
115 951
106 212
Non-current borrowings
10.
10 647
7 114
Non-current lease liabilities
10.
20 811
21 896
Non-current provisions
11.
7 479
6 247
Non-current derivative financial liabilities
3.
1 221
Deferred tax liabilities
7.2.
Other non-current liabilities
12.
5 862
2 955
Non-current liabilities
46 776
38 715
Current borrowings
10.
3 734
6 469
Current lease liabilities
10.
5 675
6 104
Current provisions
11
7 647
8 783
Current derivative financial liabilities
3.
2 907
Trade payables
12.1.
65 559
76 564
Current income tax liabilities
12.
3 853
1 723
Other payables
12.
75 578
68 914
Contract liabilities
3.1.
296 219
283 489
Current liabilities
461 172
452 601
507 948
491 316
623 899
597 528
The notes on pages 114 to 174 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Consolidated income statement for the year
ended December 31, 2023
(EUR 000)
Note
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Sales of equipment and licences
220 558
271 761
Sales of services
140 712
156 956
Total sales
3.
361 270
428 717
Cost of sales and services (-)
1.
-234 505
-294 276
Gross profit
1.
126 765
134 441
Selling and marketing expenses (-)
-24 787
-26 283
General and administrative expenses (-)
-49 089
-53 818
Research and development expenses (-)
-41 839
-47 923
Other operating expenses (-)
4.1.
-6 088
-3 525
Other operating income
4.2.
2 200
Operating result (EBIT)
1.
4 962
5 092
Financial expenses (-)
6.1.
-16 271
-11 181
Financial income
6.2.
10 876
5 943
Share of profit/(loss) of companies consolidated using the equity method
4.
Profit/(loss) before taxes
- 430
Tax income/(expenses)
7.
6 487
-8 795
Profit/(loss) for the period
6 057
-9 110
Earnings per share (EUR per share)
8.
Basic
+0.2078
-0.3128
Diluted
+0.2007
-0.3128
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Consolidated statement of other
comprehensive income for the year ended
December 31, 2023
(EUR 000)
Notes
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Profit/(loss) for the period (net of tax)
6 057
-9 110
Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in
subsequent periods (net of tax):
- Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
2 451
- Exchange difference related to net investment in foreign operation
- Net movement on cash flow hedges
4.1.
5 057
Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in
subsequent periods
8 489
Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in
subsequent periods (net of tax):
- Revaluation at fair value of other investments
5.
-10 422
-2 904
- Remeasurement gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans
11.1
3 548
-1 067
Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss
in subsequent periods
-6 874
-3 971
Total Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
-6 106
4 518
Total comprehensive income for the year
-4 592
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended December 31, 2023
EUR 000
Capital
stock
(Note
1)
Capital
surplus
(Note
1)
Treasury
shares
(Note 16.1)
Hedging
reserves
(Note 17)
Other
reserves –
Stock option
plans and
share-based
compensation
(Note 16.2)
Other
reserves
defined
benefit
plans
(Note
28)
Other
reserves -
Revaluation
reserves
(Note 9)
Currency
translation
difference
(Note 17)
Retained
earnings
(Note
17)
TOTAL
Shareholders’
equity and
reserves
As at January 1, 2022
42 413
42 836
-12 613
-8 440
16 838
-4 064
4 014
-6 315
51 227
125 896
Profit/(loss) for the
period
6 057
6 057
Other comprehensive
income
3 548
-10 422
-6 106
Total comprehensive
income for the period
3 548
-10 422
6 057
Capital increase
Dividends
-5 598
-5 598
Employee stock options
and share-based
payments (note 16.2)
(Purchase)/Sale of
treasury shares (note
1)
-5 160
-5 160
Hyperinflation
adjustment
Other changes
As at December 31,
42 502
43 478
-18 328
-8 402
17 779
-6 408
-5 585
51 431
115 951
As at January 1, 2023
42 502
43 478
-18 328
-8 402
17 779
-6 408
-5 585
51 431
115 951
Profit/(loss) for the
period (note 4)
-9 110
-9 110
Other comprehensive
income
5 057
-1 067
-2 904
3 432
4 518
Total comprehensive
income for the period
5 057
-1 067
-2 904
3 432
-9 110
-4 592
Dividends
-6 118
-6 118
Employee stock options
and share-based
payments (note 16.2)
1 008
1 008
(Purchase)/Sale of
treasury shares' of
treasury shares (note
1)
Hyperinflation
adjustment
Other changes
As at December 31,
42 502
43 478
-18 213
-3 345
18 787
-1 583
-9 312
-2 153
36 051
106 212
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Consolidated cash flow statement for the year
ended December 31, 2023
(EUR 000)
Note
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net profit/(loss) for the period
6 057
-9 110
Adjustments for :
Depreciation of tangible assets
8, 23.1
8 989
9 774
Depreciation and impairment of intangible assets
2
1 722
1 747
Write-off on receivables
1
Changes in fair value of financial assets (profits)/losses
-3 591
Changes in provisions
6 143
2 074
Deferred taxes
-11 244
1 898
Share of result of associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity
method
1
Other non-cash items
1
-7 864
-5 478
Net cash flow changes before changes in working capital
2 185
Trade receivables, other receivables and deferrals
-72 997
3 716
Inventories and contracts in progress
66 009
-53 159
Trade payables, other payables and accruals
40 720
11 354
Other short-term assets and liabilities
-7 615
19 564
Changes in working capital
26 117
-18 525
Net income tax paid/received
-4 418
-2 521
Interest expense
2 049
Interest income
-1 496
-1 650
Net cash (used)/generated from operations
21 712
-19 769
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment
-3 231
-5 265
Acquisition of intangible assets
2
-4 098
-7 049
Repayment received on shareholder loan
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired
1
-8 679
Acquisition of third-party and equity-accounted investments
1
-3 091
Loan to equity-accounted investments
-1 000
Other investing cash flows
Net cash (used)/generated from investing activities
-19 135
-13 324
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Repayment of borrowings
-24 734
-1 000
Repayment of principal portion of lease liabilities and proceeds from sublease
2
-6 074
-6 489
Interest paid
-2 311
Interest received
1 496
1 650
Capital increase (or proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares)
Dividends paid
-5 579
-6 121
(Acquisitions)/disposal of treasury of shares
1
-5 160
Other financing cash flows
3
-1 778
Net cash (used)/generated from financing activities
-41 476
-14 384
Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
199 270
158 366
Net change in cash and cash equivalents
-38 899
-47 477
Exchange (profits)/losses on cash and cash equivalents
-2 005
-1 583
Net cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
158 366
109 306
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Notes
Summary of significant group accounting
policies ............................................... 115
Significant events in the period and
accounting estimates and judgements
............................................................ 120
1. Direct financial impacts of Russia’s invasion
of Ukraine ................................................... 120
2. Climate-related matters ........................... 121
3. Macro-economic environment................. 122
4. Contributions to Pantera SA/NV ............. 123
5. Significant accounting estimates and
judgements ................................................. 124
Business combinations and other
changes in the composition of the group
............................................................ 125
Operating segments and IBA Group
performance ....................................... 126
1. Performance of each Segments ............. 126
2. Performance of each geographic region . 129
3. Revenue .................................................. 130
4. Other operating expenses ....................... 133
5. Other operating Income .......................... 133
6. Financial expenses and income ............. 134
7. Taxation .................................................. 135
8. Net earnings per share ........................... 138
Statement of financial position ........... 139
1. Intangible assets ..................................... 139
2. Property, plant and equipment ............... 141
3. Impairment of assets .............................. 143
4. Associates and Joint Ventures ............... 144
5. Other shares and participations .............. 147
6. Inventories .............................................. 148
7. Trade receivables and other operating
assets ........................................................ 149
8. Cash and cash equivalents .................... 151
9. Equity ...................................................... 151
10. Borrowings ............................................ 152
11. Long-term and short-term provisions.... 155
12. Trade payables and other operating
liabilities ..................................................... 158
Stock options and share-based payments
........................................................... 159
Description of financial risk management
........................................................... 161
Cash flow statement .......................... 167
Litigation ............................................. 168
Liabilities and contingent assets ...... 169
Related party transactions ............... 169
List of subsidiaries and equity-
accounted investments ...................... 172
Fees for services rendered by the
statutory auditors ............................... 173
Events after the reporting date .......... 173
Glossary of alternative performance
measures (APM) ................................ 174
Auditor’s report on the consolidated
financial statement ............................. 175
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Summary of significant group accounting
policies
1.
Ion Beam Applications SA (the “Company” or
the “Parent”), founded in 1986, and its
subsidiaries (together, the “Group” or “IBA”) are
committed to technological progress in the field
of cancer diagnosis and therapy and deliver
efficient,
dependable
solutions
providing
unequalled precision. IBA also offers innovative
solutions for everyday hygiene and safety.
The
Company
limited
company
incorporated and domiciled in Belgium. The
address of its registered office is Chemin du
Cyclotron,
B-1348
Louvain-la-Neuve,
Belgium. Ion Beam Applications SA is the
mother Company of the Group and the Ultimate
Parent.
The Company is listed on the pan-European
Euronext stock exchange (B-compartment) and
is included in the BEL Mid Index.
IBA publishes condensed half-yearly and
annual consolidated financial statements which
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS
as endorsed by EU.
These consolidated financial statements have
been approved for release by the Board of
Directors on March 19, 2024.
2.
The consolidated financial statements are:
Prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as
adopted by the European Union (EU). All
standards and interpretations issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board
(IASB) and the International Financial
Reporting
Interpretations
Committee
(IFRIC) effective year-end 2023 have been
adopted by the EU. Consequently, the
accounting policies applied by the Group
also fully comply with IFRS as issued by the
IASB.
Prepared on the historical cost basis unless
otherwise indicated (financial instruments
such as derivative and equity investments
that have been measured at fair value).
Prepared on an accrual basis and on the
assumption of going concern.
Presented in Euro, which is the Company’s
functional currency.
Rounded to the nearest thousands unless
stated otherwise.
The preparation of financial statements in
accordance with IFRS requires the use of
certain critical accounting estimates. It also
requires Management to exercise judgment in
the process of applying the Company’s
accounting policies. Areas involving a higher
degree of judgment or complexity, or areas
where
assumptions
and
estimates
are
significant
the
consolidated
financial
statements are disclosed in the relevant notes
refered to in Note 2.6.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

2.1 Material accounting policies
IBA discloses the material accounting policies in the notes to which they refer. Here is the list of the
policies presented and references to Notes:
Accounting policies
Note
Business combinations
3 Business combinations and other changes in
the composition of the group
Goodwill
3 Business combinations and other changes in
the composition of the group
Operating segments
4 Operating segments and IBA Group
performance
Revenue recognition
3 Revenue
Pensions and similar obligations
11.1 Defined employee benefit
Share-based payments
6 Stock options and share-based payments
Current and deferred tax
7 Taxation
Earnings per share
8 Net earnings per share
Intangible assets
1 Intangible assets
Property, Plant and Equipment
2 Property, plant and equipment
Leases
2 Property, plant and equipment
10 Borrowings
Impairment of intangible and tangible assets
3 Impairment of assets
Associates and Joint Ventures
4 Associates and Joint Ventures
Inventories
6 Inventories
Financial Instruments
5 Other shares and participations
7 Trade receivables and other operating assets
12 Trade payables and other operating liabilities
8 Cash and cash equivalents
10 Borrowings
3 Financial Instruments
Foreign currency transactions
6 Financial expenses and income
Equity
9 Equity
Provisions
11 Long-term and short-term provisions
Fair value
4 Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair
value
2.2 Changes in accounting
policies and disclosures,
changes in estimates and
errors
The accounting policies adopted in the
preparation
the
consolidated
financial
statements for the year ended December 31,
2023 are consistent with those followed in the
preparation of the Group’s annual consolidated
financial statements for the year ended
December 31, 2022, except for the adoption of
new standards and interpretations effective as
of 1 January 2023.
Changes in estimates are accounted for
prospectively. Significant errors are accounted
for retrospectively, but there were no such
significant accounting errors recorded in these
consolidated financial statements.
2.3 Standards issued and
effective
The Group applied for the first time certain
standards and amendments endorsed by the
EU, which are effective for annual periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2023. The
Group has not early adopted any other
standard, interpretation or amendment that has
been issued but is not yet effective.
Although
these
new
standards
and
amendments apply for the first time in 2023,
they do not have a material impact on the
consolidated financial statements of the Group.
The nature and the impact of each of the
IBA – Annual Report 2023

following new standards, amendments and/or
interpretations are described below:
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts, effective 1
January 2023 and 'Amendments to IFRS 17
Insurance contracts: Initial Application of
IFRS 17 and IFRS 9 – Comparative
Information (effective 1 January 2023).
Amendments to IAS 8 Accounting Policies,
Changes in Accounting Estimates and
Errors – Definition of accounting estimates,
effective 1 January 2023
Amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS Practice
Statement 2 - Disclosure of Accounting
Policies, effective 1 January 2023
Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax
related to Assets and Liabilities arising from
a Single Transaction, Effective 1 January
Amendments to IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’:
International Tax Reform – Pillar Two
Model Rules (effective 1 January 2023).'
IFRS 17 insurance contracts
IFRS 17 is a new accounting standard for
insurance contracts covering recognition and
measurement, presentation and disclosure,
replacing IFRS 4, already amended with
transition
option
regarding
comparative
information.
The group does not issue insurance contracts,
the financial guarantees that may be issued by
the Group are treated as financial instruments
in accordance with IFRS 9. The new standard
had no impact on the consolidated financial
statements as from the effective date.
Amendments to IAS 8 Accounting
Policies, Changes in Accounting
Estimates and Errors – Definition of
accounting estimates
The IASB issued amendments to IAS 8, in
which it introduces a definition of ‘accounting
estimates’.
The
amendments
clarify
the
distinction between changes in accounting
estimates and changes in accounting policies
and the correction of errors. Also, they clarify
how entities use measurement techniques and
inputs to develop accounting estimates.
The amendments are effective for annual
reporting periods beginning on or after 1
January 2023 and apply to changes in
accounting policies and changes in accounting
estimates that occur on or after the start of that
period.
The amendments did not have a material
impact on the Group as the clarifications are
confirming the current practices of the Group.
Amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS
Practice Statement 2 - Disclosure of
Accounting Policies
The IASB provides guidance and examples to
help entities apply materiality judgements to
accounting
policy
disclosures.
The
amendments aim to help entities provide
accounting policy disclosures that are more
useful by replacing the requirement for entities
to disclose their ‘significant’ accounting policies
with a requirement to disclose their ‘material’
accounting policies and adding guidance on
how entities apply the concept of materiality in
making decisions about accounting policy
disclosures.
The amendments have had an impact on the
Group’s disclosures of accounting policies, but
not on the measurement, recognition or
presentation of any items in the Group’s
financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax
related to Assets and Liabilities arising
from a Single Transaction
In May 2021, the Board issued amendments to
IAS 12, which narrow the scope of the initial
recognition exception under IAS 12, so that it no
longer applies to transactions that give rise to
equal
taxable
and
deductible
temporary
differences.
The amendments have been applied to
transactions that occur on or after January 1,
2023 with no material impacts on both the
current period and the previous periods
presented as comparatives.
Amendments to IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’:
International Tax Reform – Pillar Two
Model Rules
In 2023, the IASB introduced some exceptions
to the accounting of deferred tax related to the
application of the International Tax Reform
Pillar
and
clarifies
the
disclosures
requirements. As IBA Group does not reach the
IBA – Annual Report 2023

turnover thresholds, the Pillar reform and
related IFRS amendment should not have any
impact on the group’s financial statements.
2.4 Standards issued but not
yet effective
The
new and
amended
standards
and
interpretations that are issued and endorsed by
the EU, but not yet effective, up to the date of
issuance of the Group’s financial statements
are disclosed below. The Group intends to
adopt these standards and interpretations, if
applicable, when they become effective.
Amendments to IAS 1 Classification of
Liabilities as Current or Non-current and
Non-Current Liabilities with Covenants,
effective 1 January 2024
Amendments to IFRS 16 Lease Liability in
a Sale and Leaseback, effective 1 January
Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7 Supplier
Finance Arrangements, effective 1 January
Amendment to IAS 21 the Effects of
Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates,
effective 1 January 2025
Amendments to IAS 1 classification of
liabilities as current or non-current and
Non-Current Liabilities with Covenants
The amendments clarify the requirements for
classifying liabilities as current or non-current.
In specific, the amendments clarify:
What is meant by a right to defer settlement
That a right to defer must exist at the end of
the reporting period
That classification is unaffected by the
likelihood that an entity will exercise its
deferral right
This right may be subject to the compliance
covenants
included
the
loan
agreement, but only the covenants effective
on or before the end of the reporting period
could impact the classification
That only if an embedded derivative in a
convertible liability is itself an equity
instrument, would the terms of a liability not
impact its classification
The amendments are effective for annual
reporting periods beginning on or after 1
January
and
must
applied
retrospectively. Since the group’s current
practice is in line with the amendments, the
Group does not expect any effect on its
consolidated financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 16 Lease liability
in a Sale and Leaseback
The IASB issued amendments to IFRS16, ,
specifying the measurement of lease liability in
a Sale and Leaseback transaction.
The amendments are effective for annual
reporting periods beginning on or after 1
January
and
must
applied
retrospectively to transaction entered into after
the initial application of IFRS 16.
The amendments are not expected to have an
impact on the the Group’s financial statements
as IBA has not entered into Sales and
Leaseback transactions.
Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7 –
Supplier Finance Arrangements
The IASB amended IAS 7 and IFRS 7 to clarify
the
description
supplier
finance
arraangements and the related disclosures.
These are effective for annual reporting periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2024 with earlier
application permitted.
As at December 31, 2023, the group has not
entered into such arrangements as a buyer and
had therefore concluded that the additional
disclosures are not applicable to IBA.
Amendment to IAS 21 the Effects of
Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
The IASB amended IAS 21 to add requirements
to help entities to determine whether a currency
is exchangeable into another currency and
which rate to use.
A currency is exchangeable when there is an
ability to obtain the other currency (with a
normal
administrative
delay),
and
the
transaction would take place through a market
exchange
mechanism
that
creates
enforceable rights and obligations.
The amendments will be effective from annual
reporting periods beginning on or after 1
January 2025. The group is currently assessing
IBA – Annual Report 2023

the impact of this amendment, more particularly
on its transactions in Russia and Argentina.
3.
The parent and all of its controlled subsidiaries
are included in the consolidation.
3.1 Subsidiaries
Assets and liabilities, rights and commitments,
and income and charges of the parent and its
controlled subsidiaries are consolidated in full.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is
exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns
from its involvement with the entity and has the
ability to affect those returns through its power
over
the
entity.
Subsidiaries
are
fully
consolidated from the date on which control is
transferred
the
Group.
They
are
deconsolidated from the date that control
ceases.
The following treatments are applied on
consolidation:
The carrying amount of the parent’s
investment in each subsidiary and the
parent’s portion of the equity of each
subsidiary are eliminated;
In the statement of consolidated financial
position, non-controlling interests in the net
assets of subsidiaries are identified and
reported separately in the caption “Non-
controlling interests”;
The portion of the profit or loss of the fully
consolidated subsidiaries attributable to
shares held by entities outside the Group is
presented in the consolidated income
statement in the caption “Profit/(loss)
attributable to non-controlling interests”;
Intra-Group balances and transactions and
unrealized gains and losses on transactions
between
Group
companies
are
fully
eliminated.
Consolidated financial statements are prepared
applying uniform accounting policies to like
transactions and other events in similar
circumstances.
3.2 Translation of financial
statements of foreign
operations
The financial statements of the Group entities
are measured using their functional currency,
which is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which they operate and
corresponds for most of them to their local
currency.
All monetary and non-monetary assets and
liabilities (including goodwill) are translated to
euros at the closing rate. Income and expenses
are translated at the average rate for the month,
except
for
foreign
operations
hyperinflationary
economies
which
are
translated at the closing rate of the year..
Differences arising from translation at these
different rates are recognized directly in equity
under “Currency translation difference” and
have no impact on the Income Statement.
IBA group uses the offical rates published by the
European Central Bank. Alternatively, when a
rate is not published by the institution, the
groupe uses rates from the reputable source
“Oanda.com”. The main exchange rates used
for conversion to EUR are as follows:
Closing rate on December
31, 2022
Average annual rate
Closing rate on December 31, 2023
Average annual rate
USD
0666
0541
1050
0814
CNY
3582
0768
8509
6464
INR
1710
5729
9045
2835
RUB
8640
8896
2557
3156
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Significant events in the period and
accounting estimates and judgements
1.
DIRECT FINANCIAL IMPACTS OF RUSSIA’S
Early 2022 Russia invaded Ukraine, leading to
a myriad of economic and other sanctions
against Russia, some of which also impact the
functioning of IBA.
IBA has a subsidiary in Russia employing about
25 employees, whose operations have been
maintained to ensure the operation and
maintenance of a proton therapy center in
Dimitrovgrad; the maintenance contract for this
center has been renewed in 2023 for another
year. At the same time, the installation of the
last treatment room is still ongoing.
We have analyzed the impact of these
sanctions on the control of IBA SA on its
Russian subsidiary from a consolidation scope
perspective, access to its resources, and the
indicators of asset impairment the conflict may
raise:
1.1 Control
We have reviewed whether IBA Group still has
control over its Russian subsidiary (Ion Beam
Applications LLC, a 100% subsidiary of IBA
SA). We have concluded that IBA Group still
has control over its subsidiary based upon the
following three aspects:
IBA SA as mother company and IBA
Group’s
management
still
direct
the
activities of the entity;
IBA Russia continues to generate returns
by continuing the maintenance activities
that are not subject to any EU sanction;
IBA SA has the power to affect these
returns (i.e. to have a dividend paid): the
cash flow forecast indicates an excess cash
from
the
maintenance
contract.
Management believes that IBA has still the
ability to obtain dividend from its Russian
entity.
To assess whether IBA Russia is able to fulfill
its obligations under the contract, we have
considered the following:
The cash generated by these activities is
sufficient to cover all local expenses
incurred
fullfilling
IBA
Russia’s
obligations under the contract;
The stock of spare parts held on site is
sufficient to provide for a normal level of
maintenance service to the site for at least
12 months; in addition all supplies required
for the installation contract are already on
site, ready to be consumed;
Management has also made the assessment
that cash can be repatriated in the form of
dividend as these are not blocked under the
current sanctions and therefore, IBA has access
to the liquidities kept in Russia and the ability to
receive a return from its Russian subsidiary.
1.2 Impairment of non-
financial assets
Assets in Russia
The non-current assets of the Russian
subsidiary represent RUB 56.2 million (EUR 0.6
million) and are composed of a Right of Use
asset for the lease of the building which is
renewed on a yearly basis and some deferred
tax assets on temporary differences.
The current assets represent RUB 398.1 million
(EUR 4.1 million) and are the following
Inventory which is being consumed in the
maintenance project as needed, and for
which obsolescence has been evaluated
considering the expected future spare parts
needs of the site. Given that all parts are
considered
recommended
available
maintenance
site,
Management did not identify excessive
inventory levels for which additional write off
should be recognised.
Trade receivable: there are no large
overdue balances requiring expected credit
loss allowances and customers have been
paying regularly, in accordance with the
contractual terms
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Contract asset: there are no unusual delays
to be observed on the installation contract
which indicate a risk of recoverability.
Other assets mainly relate to various tax
receivables where we do not observe any
significant risk
Cash: the cash held in the Russian
subsidiary is kept in RUB
In conclusion, IBA has assessed that there is no
risk of impairment on IBA Russia’s assets,
noting that the net assets of IBA Russia
amounts to RUB -301.6 million (EUR -3.1
million).
Other assets held by IBA Group
Management has considered whether the
conflict has an impact on the impairment test
performed on the goodwill and whether it is an
indicator of impairment for other non-financial
assets.
Goodwill impairment test: the 5-year strategic
plan used as a basis for the impairment test was
prepared in December 2023 using the latest
inflation forecasts taking into account energy
and transport prices increases, as well as a
higher discount rate. Despite these prudent
inputs, the group has sufficient headroom in the
impairment test to conclude that the risk is
relatively low.
The conflict was assessed as having little
impact on IBA’s global supply chain; the high
energy prices and other materials costs were
considered when applying inflation in the
strategic forecasts of the group. The
assessment has led to the conclusion that the
current economic situation does not represent
an indicator of impairment on IBA group’s
assets.
1.3 Other accounting
considerations
IBA does not have cash flow hedge derivatives
with respect to its activities in Russia, therefore
no further consideration has been given to the
application of hedge accounting.
IBA also considered whether the conflict could
have an impact on its customers and their ability
to pay the balances due to IBA; no significant
additional credit losses were recognised for that
reason in the year ended December 31, 2023.
2.
CLIMATE-RELATED MATTERS
Climate related matters are managed by the
Sustainability Board which meets once a year
and decides on the Group’s commitments and
action plans. Three risks categories have been
identified being strategic risks, process and
operational risks and product risks; all are
monitored closely by Management. The risk
assessment is done once a year and each risk
is managed internally with a defined process
which covers the risk identification, the risk
analysis and scoring, the risk strategy, risk
mitigation and closure as well as the review and
monitoring. Several risks and opportunities that
have been identified as having the higher
impact on the organization are the following:
Risk:
Extreme
weather
conditions
(droughts, flooding, tsunami etc): these
could significantly disrupt the supply chain
downstream processes of IBA by impacting
our
vendors’
production
and
freight
capacities and consequently affect our
revenue. A high level assessment has been
performed with an expected potential loss
of revenue of EUR 1.0 million per year. As
a result, we foresee a dialogue with our key
suppliers and the supplier code of conduct,
as well as the internal sourcing policy which
will
amended
reflect
stricter
requirements.
Risk: Carbon pricing mechanisms could
increase direct costs. IBA has run a
scenario based on 40 €/tCO2e, in line with
our internal carbon pricing as used for our
contribution to the decarbonization program
of Soil Capital and could result in a EUR 1.0
million impact on future costs. IBA is
continuously looking for opportunities to
offset
the
remaining
part
the
organisation’s footprint.
Opportunity: Development of new products
or services through R&D and innovation:
IBA continues to invest heavily in research
and developpement to decrease the energy
consumtion and CO2 emissions of our
products,
giving
these
competitive
IBA – Annual Report 2023

advantage. IBA launched an ecodesign
program through which the environmental
performance of each manufacturing part of
the most representative products is being
assessed and monitored. This program will
be the stepping stone for the focus of the
future R&D efforts.
Opportunity: it is observed that employee
attractivity and retention is increasingly
impacted by the continuous investments
made by IBA in being a sustainable
company.
In order to mitigate the risks and contribute
positively to climate change, IBA is committed
to several targets:
Reduction of GHG emissions of our
infrastructure and mobility by 50% at the
latest by 2030 (base year 2018):
A decrease of the energy consumption
of our infrastructure with additional
solar panels and other smaller scale
projects such as the installation of more
energy efficient lights and the renewal
of and the decarbonization of our
electricity (scopes 1 and 2), total
spending of EUR 0.9 million;
The change of our mobility policy to
transform the current company car fleet
to 100% electric vehicles
An optimisation program of the sites
travels for flying engineers with an
increased use of remote maintenance
and a better geographic allocation of
the staff visiting several serviced sites
Reduction by 2/3rd of the unsorted waste
(base year 2018) to be achieved by waste
sorting awareness campains, production of
user-centric sorting rules and new waste
bins, in offices and manufacturing areas
Decrease of water withdrawal intensity by
35% below 2020 levels by 2025 expressed
in m3 per million € revenues or FTE
From the above analysis and more detailed
review of all risks and mitigation actions the
following
factors
were
assessed
Management:
We do not see climate issues having an
impact on the outcome of the impairment
test of the goodwill, nor on the useful lives
of our non-current assets as IBA does not
foresee an early replacement of its
infrastructure and facilities;
We have not identified any additional risk of
expected
credit
loss
our
trade
receivables and other financial assets;
As the commitments for carbon emissions
reductions, waste management and water
consumtion described above relate to future
events and actions are to be taken, we have
not
identified
constructive
obligations
resulting from these commitments, nor the
need to record any operational onerous
contract provisions other than those already
presented in these consolidated financial
statements;
Currently, IBA is not involved in emission
trading schemes (even though investments
are made in Carbon Farming, these are not
allowed for compensation activities as they
are outside IBA’s value chain). In addition,
IBA has not signed any Power Purchase
Agreement for the supply of green energy
as these are deemed too expensive for IBA
due to the energy price level at the time of
the investigation done by IBA;
Our
forecast
transactions
remain
sufficiently certain and cautious to ensure
that
effectiveness
our
derivatives
financial instruments is maintained to
qualify for hedge accounting;
3.
MACRO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Management has considered several factors
related to the macro-economic environment and
their impact on impairment of non-financial
assets, expected credit losses, provisions,
revenue
recognition,
hedge
accounting,
pension plans, deferred tax and going concern.
When preparing the budget for 2024 and the
medium-term
strategic
plan,
the
macro-
economic conditions were taken into account
for the assumptions and forecast transactions.
IBA’s order intake remains strong and the
backlog is increasing, therefore reducing
uncertainty on future revenues. In addition, the
cash position of the group remains solid with
EUR 109.3 million gross cash (EUR 67.7 million
net). Management has concluded that going
concern is not at risk for the group and its
IBA – Annual Report 2023

entities and that the deferred tax assets are
recoverable.
We explain how several macro-economic
factors where taken into account below:
3.1 High inflation
Impairment: in preparing the goodwill
impairment tests and in reviewing indicators
of impairment, Management has taken into
consideration a high inflation in the forecast
costs in the budget and strategic financial
plans. Given the available headroom, this
had no impact on the conclusion of the
impairment test.
Revenue
recognition
and
Onerous
contracts: most contracts signed by IBA
have an indexation clause linked to
inflation. The costs to complete of each
significant
equipment
and
installation
contract
well
operation
and
maintenance contrat have been reviewed
with the latest price increases and expected
future inflation.
Pension plan provision: inflation was also
factored in the actuarial assumptions used
for the calculation of the provision for the
defined benefit pension plan, although only
the long-term inflation is relevant for these
calculations.
Expected credit losses on loans and
receivables: the amount and timing of the
expected credit losses, as well as the
probability assigned thereto, has been
based on the available information at the
end of year 2023, including a consideration
on the impact of inflation on our customers.
As a result of this review, no additional
credit losses for customers facing financial
difficulties were recognised.
3.2 High interest rates
The increase in interest rates were reflected in
a higher WACC used in the discounting of the
future cash flows in the impairment model.
In addition, the discount rates used in the
actuarial assumptions of the defined benefit
plan were increased, leading to a decrease of
the provision. This was partially offset by a
decrease of the return on the plan assets as we
observe a decline in stock markets.
The interest-bearing borrowings that IBA has
are fixed-rate instruments with no uncertainty
on the timing and amount of future cash flows.
4.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO PANTERA SA/NV
In 2022, IBA established a strategic R&D
partnership as a Joint Venture with SCK-CEN
(Belgian Nuclear Research Center). Both
entities participate for 50% of the share capital
with an initial contribution of EUR 0.3 million.
The JV is established in Belgium and will be
active in the nuclear medicine, more specifically
it will develop, produce and distribute the
isotope Ac.225. The R&D project is still at a
very early stage but the JV has secured some
early supply of Ac.225 via a partnership with
TerraPower Isotopes.
In 2023, both IBA and SCK-CEN made further
equal contributions to the capital of PanTera
SA/NV. IBA contributed EUR 16.0 million in
cash which has been used immediately by
Pantera to purchase a Rhodotron from IBA.
The transaction is considered as a “quasi
apport” by Belgian Company Law, hence
assimilated as a contribution in kind. IBA will
recognise the sale of the equipment in
accordance with the revenue recognition
accounting
policy,
over
time
using
the
percentage of completion method. The
equipment remains unbuilt at the closing date
and the payment received in full is accounted
for as a contract liability. The margin on the
revenue from the sale of the equipment will be
recognised only to the extent of unrelated
investors’ interest in the J.V.
IBA also contributed IP in kind to Pantera for a
value of EUR 4.4 million. The gain on this
transaction has been recognised only to the
extent of unrelated investors’ interests, being
50%, against “Other operating income”.
Both venturers have also granted a convertible
loan to Pantera for an amount up to EUR 1.0
million which was fully drawn upon during the
financial year. The loan bears interests at a rate
of 6% per year and has a term of 3 years. The
IBA – Annual Report 2023

loan can be converted into shares with the
conversion price set in the agreement if some
conditions are met, in which case interests are
forfeited. Given the materiality, interests have
been accrued and the fair value of the equity
element has not been determined separately.
5.
In preparing these consolidated financial
statements, management is required to make
estimates and judgements that affect the
application of accounting policies and the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
income and expenses.
The application of accounting policies requires
judgements
that
impact
the
amounts
recognised. Additionally, amounts recognised
are based on factors that are by default
associated with uncertainty. Actual results may
therefore
differ
from
estimates.
Where
applicable, the estimates and judgements are
described per note within the consolidated
financial statements.
The estimates and assumptions that have a
significant risk of causing a material adjustment
to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
within the next financial year are described in
the following notes:
Particular area involving significant estimates and
judgements
Note
Judgements in applying accounting policies
Revenue recognition – Equipment and installation considered as one
performance obligation
Note 4.3 – Revenue
Determination of the lease term of contract with renewal and/or
termination option – as a lessee
Note 5.2 – Property, plant and
equipment
Contract termination
Note 4.3 – Revenue
Assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty
Assessment of the recoverability of tax losses carryforward
Note 4.7.2 – Deferred tax
Revenue recognition - Estimating the progress under the equipment
and installation services contract
Note 4.3 – Revenue
Revenue recognition – licensing contract with CGN
Note 4.3 – Revenue
Stock option plan
Note 6 - Stock options and
share-based payments
Local taxes in countries other than Belgium
Note 4.7.1 – Income tax
expense
Estimating the value in use of intangible and tangible assets
Note 5.3 - Impairment of assets
Estimation of the incremental borrowing rate of a lease
Note 5.10.2 – Lease liabilities
Estimation of the defined benefit obligation of the post-employment
benefit plans
Note 5.11.1 – Defined employe
benefit
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Business combinations and other changes
in the composition of the group
1.
In a transaction closed on March 3, 2023, the
Group acquired 100% of the shares of
Fluidomica LD.A. The consideration paid is
EUR 0.2 million, the variable consideration is
still to be estimated and will be payable in 2026
for an amount of maximum EUR 0.4 million.
During the year: IBA set up two new
subsidiaries: IBA Dosimetry India Private
Limited in July 2023 and IBA Proton Therapy
Israel Ltd in September 2023.
2.
No disposal was carried out in 2023.
In 2023, Management has decided to re-focus
the efforts of the Industrial business on the
Rhodotron, as a result, the group closed a non-
major line of operations in the Dynamitron
business. The relevant assets such as
inventories and facilities have been sold to a
third party early 2024.
Accounting policy for business combinations
Business combinations:
All business combinations (acquisitions of businesses) are accounted for using the acquisition method. During the purchase
price allocation process, IBA determines the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets, liabilities, and contingent
liabilities and allocates the consideration to these.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is measured at fair value and includes any contingent
consideration. It is common to have an element of variable consideration such as an earn out which is contingent to the
future performance of the acquired business. IBA makes an estimate of the fair value of the contingent consideration at the
acquisition date; subsequent changes to the fair value that is deemed to be an asset or liability, are recognized in profit or
loss.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and presented under Other Operating expenses.
Goodwill
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interest
over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net
assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is a gain from a bargain purchase and is recognized in profit or loss.
Goodwill is not amortized but instead is tested for impairment annually (or more frequently if circumstances so require).
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Operating segments and IBA Group
performance
1.
The following tables provide details of the perfomance and financial position of each segment:
(EUR 000)
Year ended December 31, 2022
Proton Therapy and
Other Accelerators Dosimetry
Total
segments Eliminations
IBA
Group
Sales of equipments and licences
174 279
46 255
220 534
220 534
Sales of services
134 530
6 206
140 736
140 736
Internal sales
1 510
1 534
-1 534
Total sales
308 833
53 971
362 804
-1 534
361 270
Cost of sales and services (-)
-201 733
-32 772
-234 505
-234 505
Internal Costs of sales
-3 840
2 223
-1 617
1 617
Total Cost of sales (-)
-205 573
-30 549
-236 122
1 617
-234 505
Operating expenses (-)
-96 679
-19 036
-115 715
-115 715
Internal Operating expenses (-)
3 816
-3 733
Total Operating expenses (-)
-92 863
-22 769
-115 632
-115 715
Other operating income/(expenses)
-5 992
-6 088
-6 088
Segment result (EBIT)
4 405
4 962
4 962
Recurring segment (REBIT) excluding internal sales
10 397
11 050
11 050
Financial income/(expenses)
-5 363
-5 395
-5 395
Share of profit/(loss) of companies consolidated using the
equity method
Result before taxes
Tax income/(expenses)
7 043
6 487
6 487
6 088
6 057
6 057
REBITDA
18 443
3 128
21 571
21 571
Financial position
Non-current assets
99 932
23 218
123 150
123 150
Current assets
478 157
22 319
500 476
500 476
Segment assets
578 089
45 537
623 626
623 626
Investments accounted for using the equity method
578 362
45 537
623 899
623 899
Non-current liabilities
43 541
3 235
46 776
46 776
Current liabilities
449 700
11 472
461 172
461 172
Segment liabilities
493 241
14 707
507 948
507 948
493 241
14 707
507 948
507 948
Other segment information
Capital expenditure - Intangible assets and “Property, Plant
and Equipment”
6 286
1 043
7 329
7 329
Capital expenditure - Right-of-use assets
2 004
1 297
3 301
3 301
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
7 103
1 886
8 989
8 989
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
1 135
1 722
1 722
Personnel expenses
154 788
18 294
173 082
173 082
Non-cash expenses/(income)
-16 759
-16 522
-16 522
Headcount at year-end (EFT)
1 512
1 764
1 764
IBA – Annual Report 2023

(EUR 000)
Year ended December 31, 2023
Proton Therapy and
Other Accelerators Dosimetry
Total
segments Eliminations
IBA Group
Sales of equipments and licences
216 138
55 644
271 782
271 782
Sales of services
150 268
6 667
156 935
156 935
Internal sales
3 599
3 621
-3 621
Total sales
366 428
65 910
432 338
-3 621
428 717
Costs of sales and services (-)
-257 422
-36 854
-294 276
-294 276
Internal Costs of sales
-4 582
-3 795
3 795
Total Cost of sales (-)
-262 004
-36 067
-298 071
3 795
-294 276
Operating expenses (-)
-108 712
-19 312
-128 024
-128 024
Internal Operating expenses (-)
4 560
-4 386
Total Operating expenses (-)
-104 152
-23 698
-127 850
-128 024
Other operating income/(expenses)
-1 325
-1 325
Segment result (EBIT)
5 728
5 092
5 092
Recurring segment (REBIT)
6 145
6 417
6 417
Financial income/(expenses)
-4 881
-5 238
-5 238
Share of profit/(loss) of companies consolidated using the
equity method
Result before taxes
-5 686
5 371
Tax income/(expenses)
-7 619
-1 176
-8 795
-8 795
-13 305
4 195
-9 110
-9 110
REBITDA
10 487
8 821
19 308
19 308
Non-current assets
104 635
22 544
127 179
127 179
Current assets
425 367
26 678
452 045
452 045
Segment assets
530 002
49 222
579 224
579 224
Investments accounted for using the equity method
18 304
18 304
18 304
548 306
49 222
597 528
597 528
Non-current liabilities
34 806
3 909
38 715
38 715
Current liabilities
439 819
12 782
452 601
452 601
Segment liabilities
474 625
16 691
491 316
491 316
474 625
16 691
491 316
491 316
Other segment information
Capital expenditure - Intangible assets and “Property, Plant
and Equipment”
11 522
12 274
12 274
Capital expenditure - Right-of-use assets
6 459
1 837
8 296
8 296
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and Right-of-
use assets
8 045
1 729
9 774
9 774
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
1 091
1 747
1 747
Personnel expenses
176 247
20 318
196 565
196 565
Non-cash expenses/(income)
-1 680
Headcount at year-end (EFT)
1 440
1 697
1 697
The cost of sales primarily includes the cost of materials and the employee benefit costs directly related to the production of the
equipment and the rendering of the services. The operating expenses also mainly include employee benefits expenses.
The significant revenue streams are detailed below, consistently with the business review presented in the management report
*Financial intercompany position between segments is excluded from the assets and liabilities of the segment.
For the year-ended December 31, 2023, the
Group revenue was EUR 428.7 million, a 18.7%
increase from 2022 (2022: EUR 361.3 million),
primarily composed of:
External revenues for the Proton Therapy
and Other Accelerators segment of EUR
4 million representing an increase of
65% from 2022 (2022: 308.8 EUR
million):
the revenue of Proton Therapy activities
amounts to EUR 229.1 million (2022:
EUR 218.8 million), showing a slow
increase of 4.7% due to a slow backlog
conversion in H1 as well as significant
costs at completion increases following
a high inflation ;
the revenue of Other Accelerators
activities amounts to EUR 133.7 million
(2022: EUR 88.5 million), showing a
significant increase of 51.1% thanks to a
good backlog conversion with a high
delivery volume and a solid order intake
in H1;
IBA – Annual Report 2023

revenues for the Dosimetry segment of EUR
9 million, a strong 22.1% increase from
2022 (2022: EUR 54.0 million) from organic
and external growth following the acquisition
of Modus in 2022.
For the year-ended December 31, 2023, the
Group
gross
margin
(31.4%)
worsened
compared to 2022 (35.1%) following inflation
and lower overhead absorption. The previous
year performance was also positively impacted
by indemnities related to the Rutherford’s
bankruptcy.
For the year-ended December 31, 2023, Group
operating expenses were EUR 128.0 million, a
6% increase from 2022 (2022: EUR 115.7
million). These expenses include General and
Administrative expenses for EUR 53.8 million,
Sales and Marketing expenses for EUR 26.3
million and Research and Development net of
research credit for EUR 47.9 million. Despite
efficient control of overhead costs, careful
spending and IBA’s cost control measures, the
increase is to be observed on all three types of
expenses and reflects the conditions of the
general macro-economic environment, however
the increase is mainly to be seen on Research
and Development which went up by 16%; this
demonstrates the strategic efforts that IBA is
making on both operating segments to maintain
its technological leadership in all business lines.
For the year-ended December 31, 2023, the
other operating result (loss) was EUR -3.5 million
(2022: EUR -6.1 million); it mainly includes some
reorganisation expenses for EUR 2.5 million and
the costs incurred for the Stock Option plan for
EUR 1.0 million, offset by a net gain on the
contribution in kind of the IP to the group’s new
Joint Venture Pantera for EUR 2.2 million (net of
other investors interests). The reorganization
expenses mostly relate to the discontinuation of
the Dynamitron line of business in the US. This
was
non-core
business
for
IBA
and
Management decided to re-focus its efforts on
developing its other sterilization devices. The
costs include the impact of the inventories write
downs, employee severance and retention
packages, fixed assets impairment and all other
future estimated unavoidable costs related to
that business, net of the proceeds received on
the sale of some assets. The 2022 loss mainly
included customer write offs net of the inventory
value recovered from Rutherford’s bankrupcy for
EUR 2.5 million, a one-off pension plan past
service cost of EUR 1.9 million (resulting from
change in insurance company), the costs
incurred for the Stock Option plan for EUR 0.9
million and the contribution of the Group for the
decommissioning of a research Cyclone 30 for
EUR 0.6 million.
The REBIT of both segments was impacted by
the high inflationary environment, as well as
increased investment into R&D, infrastructure,
digital technologies and sustainability, all aimed
at maintaining IBA’s leading offering and
investing in its future growth.
For the year-ended December 31, 2023, the net
financial result (loss) was EUR -5.2 million
(2022: EUR -5.4 million expenses), primarily
composed of:
Realised and un-realised exchange gains
and losses for a net loss of -3.4 million,
interest paid on debts and lease liabilities for
EUR -1.3 million, and an impact from the
application of hyperinflation accounting (IAS
29) on the result and non-monetary position
of the subsidiary in Argentina for EUR 2.0
million.
Partially compensated by interest revenues
on bank accounts and investment bonds in
relation to proton therapy projects for EUR
7 million for the Proton Therapy and Other
Accelerators segment;
As at December 31, 2023, the group has
recorded its share (50%) in the loss of PanTera
SA/NV) for EUR 0.2 million. IBA does not
account for its share of the loss in Cyclhad SAS
and Normandy Hadrontherapy SAS above the
value of its investment as the Group has no
commitment to participate in any potential future
capital increase.
As at December 31, 2023, the Group recognises
a tax expense for an amount of EUR 8.8 million
representing -2792.1% of the result before tax.
In the Proton Therapy and Other Accelerators
segment, the tax charge results from the
progress on installation projects and the
recognition of the related revenue and margin in
some countries with a relatively high tax rate as
well as a partial reversal of the deferred tax
assets in Belgium for EUR 1.7 million.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

2.
REGION
The Group operates in three main geographical
areas, Belgium, the United States and the rest of
the world. The sales figures presented below are
based on customer location, whereas non-
current and current assets are based on the
physical location of the assets.
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
Belgium
USA
ROW
Group
Sales of equipment, licences and services*
4 252
127 716
229 303
361 270
Non-current assets
85 977
11 262
25 912
123 150
Current assets
346 033
35 382
119 060
500 476
Segment assets
432 010
46 644
144 972
623 626
Investments accounted for using the equity method
432 283
46 644
144 972
623 899
Capital expenditure Intangible assets and “Property, Plant and Equipment”
5 957
1 188
7 329
December 31, 2023
Belgium
USA
ROW
Group
Sales of equipment, licences and services*
135 895
293 065
428 717
Non-current assets
93 977
9 263
23 939
127 179
Current assets
329 393
31 691
90 961
452 045
Segment assets
423 370
40 954
114 900
579 224
Investments accounted for using the equity method
18 304
18 304
441 674
40 954
114 900
597 528
Capital expenditure Intangible assets and “Property, Plant and Equipment”
11 309
12 274
*There is no breakdown of sales and services available by geographical sector.
As at December 31, 2023, no single customer represents more than 10% of the Group’s sales and
services.
Accounting policy for Operating segments
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief
operating decision maker (CODM), being the Management Team who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing
performance of the operating segments. On the basis of its internal financial reports and given the Group’s primary source
of risk and profitability, IBA has identified two operating segments:
Proton therapy and other accelerators: This segment constitutes the technological basis of the Group’s many
businesses and encompasses development, fabrication, and services associated with medical and industrial
particle accelerators and proton therapy systems.
Dosimetry: This segment includes the activities that offer a full range of innovative high-quality solutions and
services that maximize efficiency and minimize errors in radiation therapy and medical imaging Quality
Assurance and calibration procedures.
The segment results, assets and liabilities include the items directly related to a segment, as well as those that may be
allocated on a reasonable basis.
The segment investment expenses include the total cost of investments incurred during the period of acquisition of tangible
and intangible assets investments, except goodwill.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

3.
REVENUE
During the financial years, the revenue was
recognised at a point in time or over time
depending on the type of revenue stream and
performance obligations as detailed below:
Timing of revenue recognition
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Goods and services transferred at a point in time
64 839
97 683
Goods and services transferred over time
296 431
331 034
Total revenue from contracts with customers
361 270
428 717
The transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations (unsatisfied or partially
unsatisfied) is broken down as follows:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
To be satisfied within one year
453 580
378 666
To be satisfied in more than one year
1 073 387
1 016 997
Total transaction price allocated to the remaining performance
obligations (unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied)
1 526 967
1 395 663
3.1 Contract assets and contract liabilities
Contracts in progress have the following balances at the end of the year:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Costs to date and recognized revenue
383 734
393 154
Less : progress billings
-344 343
-354 710
Contracts assets
39 391
38 444
Contract liabilities
-296 219
-283 489
Net amounts on contracts in progress
-256 828
-245 046
Amounts invoiced on contracts in progress but for which payment has not yet
been received at financial position date
11 161
9 263
As at December 31, 2023 and December 31,
2022, there are no contract assets set as a
warranty to cover the financing of a proton
therapy contract.
As at December 31, 2023, contracts in progress
and amounts due to customers for contract
assets showed a net position of EUR -245.0
million compared to EUR -256.8 million as at
December 31, 2022. The decrease of EUR 11.8
million is primarily explained by the progress
made on some customer sites, despite the level
of billings remaining high in 2023.
As at December 31, 2023 and December 31,
2022, IBA did not identify any risk related to the
recoverability of these contract assets; as a
result, no allowance for expected credit loss
was recognised.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Accounting policy on revenue recognition
IBA has the following revenue streams which will determine how the revenue is recognised.
Equipment and installation services
The main activity of the Group consists of the construction of proton-therapy and other accelerators equipment and the
installation services for its customers. Such contracts with customers are referred to as equipment and installation services,
it represents the most important portion of IBA’s revenue.
Services
The Group provides operation and maintenance services which relate to the daily functioning and maintenance activity of
the proton therapy centers once those have been transferred to the customer.
Licence revenue
Occasionally, IBA group sells a licence for the intellectual property. This is not part of IBA’s main business activity and
will, in most cases, constitute a distinct performance obligation.
Dosimetry
IBA Dosimetry develops solutions that give medical staff the quality assurance tools and softwares to obtain the treatment
results they need.
Timing of recognition
Method
Other information
Equipment
and
installation
services
Over time as the goods are
highly
specialised,
the
equipments are unique and
not interchangeable and
IBA is entitled to payment
for progress to date
Input method based on the
expected contract costs.
This revenue is presented in the
income statement as “Sales”.
Services
Over time as the customer
simultaneously receives and
consumes the benefit and its
efforts are spread evenly
throughout the performance
period that is the term of the
contract.
Straight-line method
This revenue is presented in the
income statement as “Services”.
Licences
At a point in time as IBA
transfers a right to use the
intellectual property rather
than a right to access the
intellectual property
When the rights are being
transferred
This revenue is presented in the
income statement as “Sales”.
Dosimetry
At a point in time
When the control has passed
to the customer
This revenue is presented in the
income statement as “Sales”.
Contract costs in the input method
Expected contract costs comprise:
Direct and indirect production costs (e.g., resources consumed, labour hours expended, costs incurred, time
elapsed or machine hours used);
Such other costs as are specifically chargeable to the customer under the terms of the contract;
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Costs incurred in securing the contract if they can be separately identified and measured reliably and if it is
probable that the contract will be obtained.
Transaction price
The transaction price sometimes relates to a promised bundle package or services to a customer which comprises the
equipment, installation and an agreed number of years of operation and maintenance of the site. The allocation of the price
to the performance obligations is done based on the standard selling price of each component, driven by budget and taking
into accounts some contract negotiation considerations. IBA’s contract with the customers typically does not contain
variable amounts and the financing component is also considered to be non-significant as milestones payments are spread
over the project and reflect the progress of IBA in fulfilling its obligations..
Contract assets and liabilities
A contract asset is the right to consideration in exchange for goods or services transferred to the customer and is recognised
when the group has transferred goods or services to a customer before being contractually entitled to payment.
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the Group has received
consideration (or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer and will be recognized as revenue when the Group
performs under the contract.
Trade receivables
A receivable represents IBA’s right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional. Trade receivables will be
recognised when a milestone included in the contract has been reached, which is usually a significant progress step in the
completion of the contractual obligations.
Refund liabilities
A refund liability is recognised for consideration that IBA has received in advance from a customer and expects to refund
to the customer, and is measured at the amount of consideration received for which the entity does not expect to be entitled
(ie amounts not included in the transaction price).
Source of estimation uncertainty and critical judgments
Combining performance obligations:
The equipment and installation services are always contracted and sold as a bundle package. Thisis because the equipment
is specialized in nature and only IBA can provide the installation services to the customers. As a result, IBA promises relate
to the transfer of a combined output integrating both the promised equipment and relating installation services. The Group
determined that due to the nature of its promises, the equipment and installation services contract have to be considered as
one performance obligation.
Timing of revenue recognition:
The Group assessed that its performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created. In
addition its performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the Group and it has concluded that, at all
times, it has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date. Therefore, control transfers over time and
the Group recognizes revenue by measuring the progress using the input method on the basis of the costs incurred which
are compared to the total expected cost of the project (formerly referred to as “percentage of completion”).
Measurement of the costs to fulfill an obligation:
The Group recognises revenue over time under contracts for the sales of equipments and the progress is measured by
reference to the costs incurred when comparing it to the total estimated costs of the contract. The total estimated costs of
the contract is a significant estimate because it determines the progress made since the inception of the contract and IBA
recognises the revenue of the contract based on the progress estimated in percentage.
Licensing contract with CGN:
In August 2020, the group signed a technology license agreement with CGN Dasheng Electron Accelerator Technology Co.,
Ltd for the provision of goods and services related to its Multi-Room Proton Therapy System. The contract applies to the
mainland territory of the People’s Republic of China.
Initially, as the contract contains an element of variable consideration in the form of an unconditional and irrevocable
performance bond the customer can draw upon for an initial maximum value of EUR 15 million management decided not
IBA – Annual Report 2023

4.
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES AND INCOME
4.1 Other operating expenses
The other operating expenses can be broken down as follows:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Reorganization expenses
2 453
Costs related to specific projects
Costs of share-based payments
1 008
Pension plan past service cost
1 938
Costs relating to significant bankruptcy of client
2 553
TOTAL
6 088
3 525
The reorganization expense mainly relates to
the costs incurred in this discontinuation of the
Dynamitron business (described in Note 3.2.)
that will not be recovered. In 2022, the
expenses included the one-off past service cost
of EUR 1.9 million related to the pension plan
transfer and is triggered by the fact that
additional guarantees until retirement have
been granted to all employees.
4.2 Other operating Income
The other operating income can be broken down as follows:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Contribution in kind to Associates and Joint Ventures
-2 200
TOTAL
-2 200
In July 2023, IBA contributed intellectual
property to its Joint Venture Pantera which was
valued at EUR 4.4 million. The IP was not
valued in IBA’s balance sheet and the gain on
the contribution was recognised in the entity's
financial statements only to the extent of the
other investor's interests in the Joint Venture
(50%).
to recognize the full revenue of the license, given the level of uncertainty linked to this type of sale (unique in its kind for
IBA). Instead, the remaining amount of variable consideration that is highly sensitive to factors outside the entity’s influence
was recognized as a refund liability until the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. The
performance bond was officially reduced to EUR 10 million in December 2021, to EUR 5 million in December 2022 at
which point IBA recognised the corresponding variable consideration in the income statement of respective years. In
December 2023, it was agreed with CGN to cancel the remaining portion of the performance bond which was finally
forfeited in January 2024 after finalisation of the administrative processes of both CGN and the bank. Given that the
uncertainty attached to the bond is now fully removed, IBA Group has released the remaining EUR 5 million of the variable
consideration in its Income Statement in the current financial year.
Contract termination:
Depending on the contract terms with the customers, IBA may terminate a sale contract when the counterpart is in breach
of the contract terms. Management always focusses on finding a solution with the customer through negotiations but in
some rare circumstances, contracts may need to be terminated to mitigate risks and losses for the Group. If after negotiation
no agreement has been reached, a termination letter will be sent. Deposits and non-refundable milestone payments can be
recognised as revenue in the income statement; this will only be accounted for by the Group after a reasonable amount of
time, which is once the risk of any further claims from the customer is deemed sufficiently low to avoid future reversal of
revenue.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

5.
5.1 Financial expenses
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Interest paid on debts
1 282
Interests on lease liabilities
Total interest expenses
2 056
1 324
Foreign exchange losses
4 789
4 270
Loss on the change in fair value of derivatives
8 205
2 188
Unwinding of discount
Impact of hyperinflation
1 956
Other financial expenses
TOTAL
16 271
11 181
Interest paid on debt decrease due to an early
repayment of the term loan in 2022 as well as the
interest rate renegotiated with the main creditors
in August 2022.
The
impact
hyperinflation
represents
primarely the revaluation of non-monetary items
following the application of IAS 29 on the
Argentinian subsidiary. Most of the impact is
derived from the revaluation of the contract
liability position on the installation contract which
started early 2023.
The increase in the argentinian official index in
2023 was 211%. The contract liability position
being the billing in excess of the revenue
recognised on the installation project was a
significant non monetary item and has resulted
in a revaluation impact of EUR 1.9 million. IBA
has issued large milestone invoices throughout
the period which have all been indexed to the
index as at December 31, 2023. The revenue
of the year was relatively limited due to the
project starting later in the year, the revenue has
also been brought the closing index.
5.2 Financial income
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Interest received on cash and cash equivalents
1 496
1 650
Foreign exchange gains
5 384
1 035
Gains on the change in fair value of derivatives
1 606
2 637
Impact of hyperinflation
Other financial income
2 210
TOTAL
10 876
5 943
Last year, the heading “Other” mainly included
the recognition of a settlement gain for EUR 0.9
million for acquiring the future cash flows of a
customer refinancing agreement from a former
business partner in Italy as well as a one-off
gain of EUR 0.6 million from the amortised cost
revision of the borrowings following a change in
the interest rates as described in note 5.10.
Accounting policy for transactions in foreign currencies
Foreign currency transactions are converted into the functional currency of the Group entity party to the transaction, using
the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. The functional currency of each subsidiary of the group is
the official currency of the countries where they are established.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the conversion at the period-
end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in financial expenses
and income in the income statement.
Foreign exchange differences arising from long-term loans that are part of the Group’s net investment in foreign operations
are reclassified to equity as cumulative translation difference via the Other Comprehensive Income.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

6.
TAXATION
6.1 Income tax expense
The tax profit/(charge) for the year can be broken down as follows:
The tax profit on IBA’s result before taxes differs
from the theoretical amount that would have
resulted from application of the average
applicable tax rates to the profits of the
consolidated companies. The analysis is as
follows:
The theoritical tax rate presented here above is
a weighted average nominal rate of IBA group
and therefore is strongly impacted by the
disparity of profit and losses made in different
jurisdictions with different tax rates. In addition,
it is calculated using the contribution of each
entity, which can difer significantly from the profit
and loss included in tax returns due to GAAP
differences and local adjustments.
Hyperinflation :
IBA as operations in Argentina, which qualifies for hyperinflation accounting since 2018. The Argentina government
published the monthly indices as officially defined by local resolutions “RT Indice 6”.
Under IAS 29, IBA has revalued the net monetary position of IBA Argentina’s subsidiary to the closing index as well as the
revenue and expenses. Furthermore, the indexed financial position and income statement of the Company have been
translated to the group currency at the closing exchange rate instead of the average of each month.
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Current taxes
-4 757
-6 897
Deferred taxes
11 244
-1 898
TOTAL
6 487
-8 795
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Result from continuing operations before taxes
Tax charge/(profit) calculated based on local tax rates
1 996
Unrecognized deferred tax assets
3 225
Reversal/(Recognition) of deferred tax assets on available tax losses
-10 926
3 018
Utilisation of deferred tax assets
Tax-exempt transactions and non-deductible expenses
5 882
Tax exempt transactions - CIRD & Grants
-1 161
-1 105
Adjustments in respect of income tax charges of previous years
1 058
Share of result of an associate
Other tax (income)/expense
1 187
Booked tax charge/(profit)
-6 487
8 795
Theoretical tax rate
-464.19%
97%
Effective tax rate
66%
-2792.14%
IBA – Annual Report 2023

6.2 Deferred tax
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Deferred tax assets to be recovered after 12 months – Tax losses on carry-forward
15 917
13 649
Deferred tax assets to be recovered after 12 months - Temporary differences
Deferred tax assets to be recovered within 12 months - Tax losses on carry-forward
Deferred tax assets to be recovered within 12 months - Temporary differences
4 607
4 313
TOTAL
20 950
18 363
Deferred tax liabilities netted against the deferred tax assets in the statement of
financial position for entities that are part of the same fiscal group
Total DTA recognised
20 211
17 626
Deferred tax liabilities to be paid after 12 months - temporary differences
1 495
1 023
Deferred tax liabilities to be paid within 12 months - temporary differences
TOTAL
1 495
1 023
Deferred tax liabilities netted against the deferred tax assets in the statement of
financial position for entities that are part of the same fiscal group
Total DTL recognised
Net deferred tax assets
19 455
17 340
Deferred tax assets have decreased from EUR
2 million as at year ended December 31,
2022 to EUR 17.6 million as at December 31,
2023, representing a decrease of temporary
differences by EUR 0.3 million and a decrease
of usable tax losses carried forward by EUR 2.3
million. The main driver of the decrease is the
decrease of the deferred tax assets on the tax
losses carried forward in Belgium by EUR 1.7
million following the revision of the strategic plan
prepared by Management.
As at December 31, 2023, the Group had
accumulated tax losses of EUR 157.0 million
(2022: EUR 162.7 million) usable to offset future
profits taxable mainly in Belgium and in Germany
and temporary differences for which the tax base
amounts to EUR 66.9 million (2021: EUR 65.0
million) mainly in Belgium, the United States,
Germany and Russia. The Group recognized
deferred tax assets relating to tax losses carried
forward for EUR 13.6 million with the view to
using these in future years and EUR 3.7 million
as deferred tax assets and liabilities for
temporary differences.
In 2023 and in 2022, the recognized temporary
differences are mainly related to taxable
deferred revenues, non-deductible allowance for
doubtful accounts, expenses accrual and
inventory in the US entities.
(EUR 000)
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
As at January 1, 2022
8 642
Credited/(charged) to the income statement
11 426
Deferred tax recognised from a business combinations
Currency translation difference
As at December 31, 2022
20 211
Credited/(charged) to the income statement
-2 319
Deferred tax recognised from a business combinations
Currency translation difference
As at December 31, 2023
17 627
The deferred tax recognised from a business
combination in 2022 represents the temporary
difference on the intangible assets with a finite
useful life recognised as part of the purchase
price allocation exercise done on the
acquisition of Modus.
Deferred tax assets are recognized on tax loss
carry-forwards to the extent that it is probable
that they can be recovered through future
earnings.
On December 31, 2023, EUR 39.5 million (EUR
4 million in 2022) of deferred taxes were not
recognized
assets
the
financial
IBA – Annual Report 2023

position(EUR 26.9 million on accumulated tax
losses and EUR 12.6 million on temporary
differences) mainly due to the uncertainty of
future taxable profit to use these against in the
future.
Tax losses and corresponding temporary
differences have no expiry dates.
Accounting policy on taxes
Current income taxes:
Management is not expecting that the requirements of Pillar II will be applicable to IBA Group as the turnover threshold is
not met.
Tax incentives:
R&D tax credit: IBA is eligible for a tax credit on the R&D investments and the tax credits are carried forward up to 5
years (4 years until 2022), after which point these are reimbursed. IBA accounts for these as a direct deduction from the
R&D expenditures in the Consolidated Statement of Income. As most of these tax credits are not immediately utilizable by
IBA SA, a long-term asset is recognised.
Deferred taxes:
A deferred tax asset on deductible temporary differences and on unused tax losses carried forward is only recognised to the
extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary difference and/or tax
losses can be utilized. When assessing deferred tax assets, management ensure that it is based on a reasonable number of
years of taxable results.
Source of estimation uncertainty and critical judgments
Local taxation exposure
Since 2015, the Company initiated an analysis on the Group’s exposure in countries other than Belgium to be potentially
obliged to pay certain local taxes whereas the payment of those taxes has been transferred to the Group’s customers. The
exposure identified as of December 31, 2015, was reduced as a result of further investigations. Management is monitoring
this risk closely and regularly, however, based on the data available today, it is still not possible to make a reliable estimate
of the remaining exposure and therefore no provision has been accrued for in the Group‘s financial statements.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets
The Group recognizes deferred tax assets on unused losses carried forward to the extent that the taxable profit against
which these assets are available can be used. The amounts recognized in the financial position are prudent estimates made
on the basis of recent financial plans approved by the Board of Directors and depend on certain judgments with respect to
the amounts and location of the future taxable profits of the Group’s subsidiaries and parent company. In 2022, a deferred
tax asset of EUR 10.9 million was recognised on the tax losses carried forward in Belgium which was previously not
recognised. The financial plans are prepared on a 4-years horizon and are based on the expectation that the Group will
nearly double its revenues at the end of the term covered by the plan with a REBIT to sales ratio of 8%, relying on the
assumption that the macro-economic factors normalize over the coming year. The group reversed EUR 1.7 million in 2023
following the revision of the latest plan, however, Management remains confident in its capacity to develop the business in
the coming years and deliver value to all of its stakeholders.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

7.
7.1 Net basic earnings
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Earnings attributable to parent equity holders (EUR 000)
6 057
-9 110
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
29 143 354
29 126 615
Net earnings per share from operations (EUR per share)
2078
-0.3128
7.2 Diluted earnings
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
29 143 354
29 126 615
Weighted average number of stock options
1 109 277
1 116 457
Average share price over period
1
2
Dilution effect from weighted number of stock options
1 032 041
982 331
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share
30 175 395
30 108 946
Earnings attributable to parent equity holders (EUR 000)
6 057
-9 110
Diluted earnings per share from operations (EUR per share)
2007
-0.3128
In compliance with IAS33, which stipulates that the diluted earnings per share does not take into account assumptions for
conversion, financial year, or other issuing of potential ordinary shares which may have an anti-dilutive effect on the earnings
per share (shares whose conversion involves a decrease in the loss per share).
Accounting policy for earnings per share
Net basic earnings:
The weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation excludes shares purchased by the Company and
held as treasury shares.
Diluted earnings
IBA has only one category of dilutive potential on ordinary share: stock options. The calculation is performed for the stock
options to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value (determined as the average annual
market share price of the Company’s shares) based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding
stock options. The number of shares calculated is then compared with the number of shares that would have been issued
assuming the exercise of the stock options.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Statement of financial position
1.
The table below summarises the main types of intangible assets:
EUR 000
Goodwill
Software
Other
Total
Gross carrying amount as at January 1, 2022
3 821
28 517
4 886
37 224
Additions
3 509
4 098
Disposals
Transfers
Gross carrying amount of assets acquired in business combinations
6 927
1 453
8 380
Currency translation difference
Gross carrying amount as at December 31, 2022
10 262
29 874
8 872
49 008
Accumulated amortisation as at January 1, 2022
25 818
3 795
29 613
Additions
1 395
1 722
Disposals
Currency translation difference
Accumulated amortisation as at December 31, 2022
27 029
4 139
31 168
Net carrying amount as at January 1, 2022
3 821
2 699
1 091
7 611
Net carrying amount as at December 31, 2022
10 262
2 845
4 733
17 840
Gross carrying amount as at January 1, 2023
10 262
29 874
8 872
49 008
Additions
6 344
7 049
Disposals
Transfers
1 048
Gross carrying amount of assets acquired in business combinations
Currency translation difference
Gross carrying amount as at December 31, 2023
10 194
31 562
14 480
56 236
Accumulated amortisation as at January 1, 2023
27 029
4 139
31 168
Additions
1 497
1 747
Disposals
Currency translation difference
Accumulated amortisation as at December 31, 2023
28 462
4 378
32 840
Net carrying amount as at January 1, 2023
10 262
2 845
4 733
17 840
Net carrying amount as at December 31, 2023
10 194
3 100
10 102
23 396
The additions primarily include the costs incurred
by IBA in the compliance effort to renew a license
to sell medical devices in Europe in line with the
new European Medical Device Regulation. The
costs incurred are mainly internal staff costs and
are considered as development as all criteria
under IAS 38 are met. The project is still in
progress and the related costs are capitalised in
the heading “Other” for EUR 5.7 million, out of
which EUR 3.7 million were incurred this year.
Finally, further investments were made in
software development.
In 2022, additional investments were made in
software, mainly for the development of the IT
internal service management system and an SAP
HR central platform.
Amortization expense for intangible assets was
recognized in the income statement in the “Cost
of sales and services”, “Sales and marketing
expenses”,
“General
and
administrative
expenses”, and “Research and development
expenses” line items.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Accounting policy for intangible assets
Goodwill: the accounting policy for recognising and measuring goodwill is described in Note 3, Business
combinations
Software, research and development and other intangible assets:Expenditures for the development of new products and
software are recognized as intangible assets if such expenditures, with a high degree of certainty, will result in future
economic benefits for the company. IBA applies the criteria strictly and in most cases development costs are expensed when
incurred.
Amortisation:
Each asset is amortised over its useful life using the straight-line method and assets are not revalued.
The table below summarises the amortization periods for the main categories of intangible assets:
Useful life
Product development costs
3 years, except if a longer useful life is justified (however not
exceeding 5 years)
IT development costs for the primary software programs (e.q. ERP)
5 years, except if a longer useful life is justified
Other software
3 years
Concessions, patents, licenses, know-how, trademarks, and other similar
rights
3 years, except if a longer useful life is justified
IBA – Annual Report 2023

2.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
The table below summarizes the main types of tangible assets:
EUR 000
Land and buildings
Machinery and
equipment
Furniture, fixtures,
computer hardware
and vehicles
Under
construction
Total
Owned
Leased
Owned
Leased
Owned
Leased
Owned
Gross carrying amount as at
January 1, 2022
22 006
31 343
17 175
14 215
9 177
94 349
Additions
1 518
1 783
6 532
Disposals
-2 148
Transfers
Gross carrying amount of assets
acquired in business combinations
Currency translation difference
Gross carrying amount as at
December 31, 2022
22 730
32 606
17 631
14 981
10 157
1 145
99 275
Accumulated depreciation as at
January 1, 2022
10 640
7 400
13 065
11 018
3 571
45 702
Additions
3 215
1 256
1 103
2 511
8 991
Disposals
-1 845
Accumulated depreciation of assets
acquired in business combinations
Currency translation difference
Accumulated depreciation as at
December 31, 2022
11 557
10 212
13 997
11 981
5 449
53 207
Net carrying amount as at January
1, 2022
11 366
23 943
4 110
3 197
5 606
48 647
Net carrying amount as at
December 31, 2022
11 173
22 394
3 634
3 000
4 708
1 145
46 068
Gross carrying amount as at
January 1, 2023
22 730
32 606
17 631
14 981
10 157
1 145
99 275
Additions
1 684
3 381
1 067
4 914
1 563
13 521
Disposals
-1 978
-1 869
Transfers
-1 336
Gross carrying amount of assets
acquired in business combinations
Currency translation difference
Gross carrying amount as at
December 31, 2023
24 741
36 042
18 942
15 971
13 068
1 371
110 160
Accumulated depreciation as at
January 1, 2023
11 557
10 212
13 997
11 981
5 449
53 207
Additions
3 364
1 284
1 212
3 028
9 774
Disposals
-1 925
-1 983
Accumulated depreciation of assets
acquired in business combinations
Currency translation difference
Accumulated depreciation as at
December 31, 2023
12 426
13 508
15 239
12 967
6 542
60 695
Net carrying amount as at January
1, 2023
11 173
22 394
3 634
3 000
4 708
1 145
46 068
Net carrying amount as at
December 31, 2023
12 315
22 534
3 703
3 004
6 526
1 371
49 465
“Other
tangible
assets’’
mainly
include
computer
hardware
and
assets
under
construction. There are no tangible assets
subject to title restrictions.
Most of the depreciation expense for tangible
assets was recognized in the income statement
in the “Cost of sales and services”, “Sales and
marketing
expenses”,
“General
and
administrative expenses”, and “Research and
development expenses” line items. The
exception is the additional depreciation and
impairment on the assets related to the closed
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Dynamitron
business,
which
have
been
recorded in “Other operating expenses” for EUR
4 million.
In 2023, we observe a significant incerase of
new leased cars which follows the increase in
headcount but also 2022 was impacted by
important delivery delays in the car industry.
The other significant addition to fixed assets
relates to the installation of the new solar
carports on IBA’s premises as well as some
major repairs on the older buildings.
The additions to the leased buildings are mainly
due to contracts that were near the term which
have been prolonged.
In 2023 and 2022, additional investments were
also made for IT equipment.
In 2023 and 2022, the disposals of tangible
assets mainly correspond to the scrapping of
unused assets by the Group as well as leases
that came to the end of contracts and that were
not renewed.
Accounting policy for tangible fixed assets
Owned assets:
Most assets are large structural enhancements made to buildings that are leased by IBA. The acquisition cost only included
third party invoices which were directly attributable to the work performed on these assets. Internal resources are usually
not capitalised unless it can be demonstrated that these are directly attributable to the asset being constructed and these
can be measured. In addition, no borrowing costs have been capitalised.
Each asset is depreciated over its useful life using the straight-line method; assets are not revalued.
Leased assets:
The Group applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for short-term leases and leases
of low-value assets. The Group recognizes a lease liability estimating the future lease payments and a corresponding right-
of-use assets representing the right to use the underlying assets.
The Group recognizes right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying asset is
available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities which could be
following a revision of the lease term or a change in the future lease payments.
Right-of-use assets are depreciated using the straight-line method and are subject to impairment.
The table below summarises useful lives of the main asset categories :
Useful life
Land
Not depreciated
Office buildings
33 years
Industrial buildings
33 years
Cyclotrons and vaults
15 years, except in specific rare circumstances where a different
useful life is justified
Laboratory equipment
5 years
Other technical equipment
5 to 10 years
Computer hardware
3 to 5 years (5 years for mainframes)
Furniture and fittings
5 to 10 years
Vehicles
2 to 5 years
Leased assets
Shorter of asset’s useful life and leasing term
Source of estimation uncertainty and critical judgments
Lease term:
The Group determines the lease term as the non-cancellable term of the lease, together with any periods covered by an
option to extend the lease if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, or any periods covered by an option to terminate the
lease, if it is reasonably certain not to be exercised.
The Group has several lease contracts that include extension and termination options. The Group applies judgement in
evaluating whether it is reasonably certain whether or not to exercise the option to renew or terminate the lease. That is, it
considers all relevant factors that create an economic incentive for it to exercise either the renewal or termination. After
IBA – Annual Report 2023

3.
IBA does not have tangible nor intangible
assets with indefinite useful life, other than
goodwill.
Despite
the
macro-economic
conditions and other events of the year
described in Note 2, IBA did not identify any
indication of impairment on assets in 2023 and
2022 financial years.
3.1 Goodwill impairment
testing:
The goodwill recognised on the acquisition of
Modus Medical Devices Inc, relates to the
Dosimetry business and has been added to the
CGU of Dosimetry given the cross synergies that
will arise from this acquisition.
The goodwill generated by an acquisition is
allocated to the cash-generating units (CGUs)
concerned and an impairment test is carried out
annually on the CGUs’ fixed assets (including
goodwill).
The following table summarizes allocation of the
carrying amount of goodwill by operating
segment:
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
(EUR 000)
Proton therapy and Other
accelerators
Dosimetry
Proton therapy and Other
accelerators
Dosimetry
Amount recognised
10 262
10 173
Pre-tax discount rate applied (1)
n/a
44%
n/a
33%
Long-term growth rate (2)
n/a
60%
n/a
30%
(1) The pre tax discount rate used has been derived from the WACC specific to Dosimetry entities.
(2) Rate consistent with expected growth in the sector.
The recoverable amount of goodwill has been
determined on a “value in use” basis.
For the CGU Dosimetry, if the growth rate is
decreased by 100 basis points and the discount
rate is increased by 100 basis points, the
recoverable amount remains greater than the
carrying amount of the tested assets. No
impairment was identified in 2023 and in 2022.
the commencement date, the Group reassesses the lease term if there is a significant event or change in circumstances that
is within its control and affects its ability to exercise or not to exercise the option to renew or to terminate.
Discount rate:
The Group cannot readily determine the interest rate implicit in the lease, therefore, it uses its incremental borrowing rate
(IBR) to measure lease liabilities. The IBR is the rate of interest that IBA would have to pay to borrow over a similar term,
and with a similar security, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar
economic environment. The IBR therefore reflects what the Group ‘would have to pay’, which requires estimation when no
observable rates are available (such as for subsidiaries that do not enter into financing transactions) or when they need to
be adjusted to reflect the terms and conditions of the lease (for example, when leases are not in the subsidiary’s functional
currency).
The Group estimates the IBR using observable inputs (such as market interest rates) when available and is required to make
certain entity-specific estimates (such as the subsidiary’s stand-alone credit rating).
IBA – Annual Report 2023

4.
Associates and Joint Ventures are listed in note
2
and
are
Cyclhad
SAS,
Normandy
Hadrontherapy SAS, Normandy Hadrontherapy
SARL and PanTera SA/NV.
Changes in equity-accounted investments are as follows:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
As at January 1
Share of profit/(loss) of equity-accounted investments
Additions
18 200
Unrealized gain on sale of an intangible asset
As at December 31
18 304
In 2023, IBA further contributed to the capital of
PanTera
SA/NV
with
cash
purchase
equipment from IBA and IP in kind as described
in Note 2.4. The gain on this transation has been
recognised only to the extent of unrelated
investors’ interests, being 50%, against “Other
operating income” for EUR 2.2 million.
Accounting policy for impairment of assets
As the Group does not carry any intangible asset with an indefinite useful life, IBA is only testing the goodwill
recognised on business combinations annually for impairment, after the latest strategic plan has been approved by
Management.
All other assets are depreciated or amortised and are tested for impairment only if there is an indicator that an asset is
impaired; management monitors closely the past and future performance of each segment as well as other internal and
external factors through regular meetings, performance reviews, discussions with third parties and other stakeholders.
Goodwill arising from a business combination is allocated among the Group’s cash-generating units (CGU) that are
expected to benefit from synergies as a result of the business combination. This allocation is based on Management’s
assessment of the synergies gained.
Source of estimation uncertainty and critical judgments
Value in use and goodwill impairment test:
When management considers that there is a risk of impairment, the recoverable amounts of tangible and intangible assets
are determined on a “value in use” basis. Value in use is determined on the basis of cash-flows coming from IBA’s most
recent business plans (4-years horizon), as approved by the Board of Directors in the context of the strategic plan. These
plans incorporate various assumptions made by management and approved by the Board as to how the business, profit
margins, and investments will evolve.
The cash flows beyond a four-year period have been extrapolated using the growth rates and the testing uses gross budgeted
operational margins estimated by management on the basis of past performance.
The discount rates used reflect the specific risks related to the segments in question.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

4.1 Associates
The Group’s holdings in its principal associates,
all unlisted, are as follows:
(EUR 000)
Country
Assets
Liabilities Revenue
Profit/
(Loss)
% Interest
Cyclhad SAS
France
66 373
77 292
6 261
33%
Normandy Hadrontherapy SAS
France
54 284
57 246
4 116
-6 809
81%
Normandy Hadrontherapy SARL
France
00%
Country
Assets
Liabilities Revenue
Profit/
(Loss)
% Interest
Cyclhad SAS
France
64 516
78 164
5 268
-2 500
33%
Normandy Hadrontherapy SAS
France
52 727
62 491
4 116
-6 809
81%
Normandy Hadrontherapy SARL
France
00%
Cyclhad SAS
The Group has a 33.33% interest in Cyclhad
SAS, which built a proton therapy center that is
operational since the summer of 2018.
IBA has no capital commitments as at December
31, 2022 and December 31, 2023 to participate
in any potential future funding of Cyclhad SAS.
IBA has therefore not accounted for its share of
the loss and negative equity of Cyclhad SAS
beyond its value of the capital invested.
Normandy Hadrontherapy SAS
Since June 2019, IBA ownership in Normandy
Hadrontherapy SAS remained at 39.81 % (no
change from 2019) of this entity following
financing by several public and private players.
The objective of this project is to launch the
development of the world’s first cyclotron-based
carbon therapy system in Caen, France through
its subsidiary Normandy Hadrontherapy (NHa),
in collaboration with the Normandy Region and
several other private and public players,
including
SAPHYN
(SAnt
PHYsique
Nuclaire).
The overall investment by all partners in NHa is
over EUR 60 million, in equity and bond
financing
(guaranteed
the
Normandy
Region). IBA’s contribution amounted to EUR 6
million in equity and EUR 1,5 million in
convertible Bond financing (see note 6.2.3).
IBA’s investment also includes the sale of
intellectual property related to the Cyclone400
cyclotron to NHa. The gain on this transaction
amounted to EUR 5 million which was reduced
by EUR 2 million (39.81%) for unrealized gain in

IBA has no capital commitments as at December
31, 2022 and December 31, 2023 to participate
in any potential future funding of Normandy
Hadrontherapy SAS.
IBA has therefore not accounted for its share of
the loss and negative equity of Normandy
Hadrontherapy SAS beyond its value of the
capital invested.
The following table illustrates the summarized financial information of the associates:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Investment in affiliated companies
Current assets
31 942
28 364
Non-current assets
89 035
88 949
Current liabilities (-)
-14 505
-21 637
Non-Current liabilities (-)
-120 116
-119 037
Equity
-13 645
-23 361
Group’s share in equity
-4 705
-8 410
Unrealized gain on sale of an intangible asset
-1 991
-1 991
Cumulative unrecognized share of losses of associate
6 721
10 426
Other
Group’s carrying amount of Investment accounted for using the
equity method
IBA – Annual Report 2023

4.2 Joint ventures
The Group has one joint venture since 2022:
Country
Assets
Liabilities
Revenue
Profit/ (Loss)
% Interest
PanTera SA/NV
Belgium
00%
Country
Assets
Liabilities
Revenue
Profit/ (Loss)
% Interest
PanTera SA/NV
Belgium
43 093
2 134
50,00%
PanTera SA/NV
In 2022, IBA established a strategic R&D
partnership as a Joint Venture with SCK-CEN
(Belgian Nuclear Research Center). Both
entities participate for 50% of the share capital
with an initial contribution of EUR 0.3 million.
The JV is established in Belgium and will be
active in nuclear medicine, more specifically it
will develop, produce and distribute the isotope
Ac-225. The project is still at a very early stage
and is expected to start small quantities of early
supply from 2024 and large quantities of
commercial production from 2028.
IBA’s contribution of EUR 18.2 million during the
year is detailed in 2.4. above.
The following table illustrates the summarized financial information of PanTera SA/NV:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Investment in Joint Ventures
Current assets
1 313
Non-current assets
41 780
Current liabilities (-)
-2 000
Non-Current liabilities (-)
Equity
40 959
Group’s share in equity
20 480
Unrealized gain on contribution of an intangible asset
-2 200
Group’s carrying amount of Investment accounted for using the equity method
18 280
The large non-current assets of Pantera are the contributions from both IBA as an asset under
construction for the Rhodotron and IP and the contribution the other venturer SCK-CEN for the right of
use of the nuclear raw material and relevant IP.
Accounting policy for associates and Joint Ventures
An associate is an entity in which IBA has significant influence, but which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint
venture. Joint ventures (JVs) are the arrangements in which IBA has joint control. Associates and JVs are accounted for
using the equity method. When IBA’s share of losses exceeds the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture, the
carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that IBA has
committed to further contributions to that associate or JV.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

5.
The carrying amount of IBA’s holding of shares and participations in other companies is disclosed in the
table below
(EUR 000)
As at January 1
12 923
3 805
Movements through reserves (Valuation at fair value - IFRS 9)
-10 422
-2 904
Additions
1 304
1 537
As at December 31
3 805
2 438
The movements through reserves are the fair
value changes relates to the
Investment at fair value – level 1:
Scandidos A.B. for -0.2 million (2022: EUR
-0.3 million); 2022 also included the fair
value adjustment on Rutherford for EUR -
1 million;
Investment at fair value – level 3: HIL for
EUR -3.0 million (2022: EUR 1.0 million).
HIL Applied Medical Ltd
In 2016, the Group invested USD 2.0 million
(EUR 1.8 million) in HIL Applied Medical Ltd, a
private Israeli developer of laser-based proton
therapy systems which is developing a novel,
patented approach to particle acceleration and
delivery, combining nano-technology with ultra-
high-intensity lasers and ultra-fast magnets.
This potential technological breakthrough could
enable a meaningful reduction in the size and
cost of proton therapy systems without
compromising clinical utility. Alongside this
investment, IBA and HIL have signed an
Original
Equipment
Manufacturer
(OEM)
agreement which gives IBA the right to
purchase HIL’s laser-based proton accelerators
for the purpose of integrating them into proton
therapy solutions.
In 2022, IBA has recorded a value increase of
the investment by EUR 1.0 million against the
Group’s Statement of Other Comprehensive
Income, based on a valuation exercise using
the DCF method and future cash flow forecasts.
In July 2023, the investee has formally informed
the stakeholder of the financial difficulties
encountered and the start of a voluntary
dissolution. As a result, the value of the
investment has been decreased to zero,
representing a loss of EUR 3.0 million (against
the group’s Statement of Other Comprehensive
Income).
Scandidos A.B.
In 2022, the Group took a minority stake of SEK
7 million (EUR 1.3 million) in ScandiDos A.B.
This
investment
represents
11%
ownership of the issued capital.
The company is a listed group on the Swedish
stock exchange, the investment is held at fair
value based on its share price at the end of the
reporting period with changes recognised in
Other Comprehensive Income. In 2023, this
reassessment at fair value decreased the value
of the investment by EUR 0.2 million against the
Group’s Statement of Other Comprehensive
Income (cumulative impact on reserves of EUR
4 million as at December 31, 2023).
Invest.BW SA
On January 1st, 2023, the Group acquired 7 500
shares of Invest.BW S.A. As IBA was already
holding 150 shares from a previous capital
increase, IBA is now holding 25% of the issued
shares of Invest.BW SA. InvestBW is providing
financing and support to entrepreneurs in
Walloon Brabant, as a venture capital partner
InvestBW is an investment fund representing
equity and subordinated or convertible loan to
entrepreneurs. Although it is presumed that,
with 25% of the shares, IBA has a significant
influence over InvestBW, we have rebutted the
significant influence on the basis that IBA
currently has made the choice to not participate
in the decision making process of InvestBW.
The investment is accounted for as an equity
investment financial asset under IFRS9, at fair
value and gains and losses will be recognised
in Other Comprehensive Income. Given that the
shares were recently acquired, the price paid is
considered as the fair value of the investment.
Rutherford Estates Ltd
IBA had share investments in Rutherford
Estates Ltd which were valued at EUR 11.1
IBA – Annual Report 2023

million at the end of 2021. Rutherford Estates
Ltd has declared bankruptcy in 2022, at that
time the group reduced the fair value of its
investment from EUR 11.1 million to zero
(against the group’s Statement of Other
Comprehensive Income).
6.
Inventories are detailed as follows:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Raw materials and supplies
101 793
130 260
Finished products
3 219
3 768
Work in progress
8 285
11 080
Write-off of inventories (-)
-12 280
-14 563
Inventories and work in progress
101 017
130 545
Work in progress relates to the production of
inventory for which a customer has not yet been
secured, while contracts assets (note 4.3.1)
relate to the production for specific customers in
fulfilling obligations under a signed contract.
The inventories have significantly increased in
This is driven by an increase in customer
orders, business growth and anticipation of
production planning requirements.
The increase of the provision for write off covers
general obsolescence as well as the NRV
adjustment for the inventories related to the
Dynamitron business being closed as described
in Note 3.2.
Accounting policy for other shares and participations
Other shares and participations represents the holding of shares in which IBA does not hold a significant
influence. These are carried at fair value and are not held for trading, IBA has designated these investments as FVOCI
whereby all changes in fair value are recognised in OCI and will never recycle in profit and loss.
Accounting policy for inventories
Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
The cost of inventories that are ordinarily interchangeable is allocated by using the weighted average cost formula. The
same cost formula is used for all inventories that have a similar nature and use to the entity.
The assembled items of inventory is based on the weighted average cost of the raw materials included in the “Bill of
Materials” and the planned labour and overhead costs. Any variances with actual costs is included in the line “Cost of
Goods Sold” in the consolidated statement of income.
The net realizable value is assessed by reviewing the ageing of each individual inventory item and the value of inventory is
adjusted for obsolescence and slow moving items with the following policy
If no movement after 1 year: write-off over 3 years;
If movement occurs after write-off: reversal of write-off.
Exceptions to the above general policy are made when justified by the individual valuation.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

7.
The trade receivable, other receivables and other operating assets are detailed as follows:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Current
Gross trade receivables
115 013
111 315
Allowance for expected credit losses on trade
receivables (-)
-3 364
-3 739
Trade receivable
111 649
107 576
Non-trade receivables
11 652
14 300
Advance payments
28 633
28 111
Accrued income related to maintenance contracts
16 219
10 173
Current income tax receivables
3 392
Cash with restriction more than 3 months
7 260
Prepaid share investments
1 538
Non highly liquid short term deposits
11 138
Other current receivables
2 090
3 713
Other short-term receivables
81 922
57 378
Prepaid expenses
5 724
6 029
Research tax credit
2 247
2 028
Other short-term assets
7 971
8 057
TOTAL Current trade and other receivable and
201 542
173 011
Non-current
Long-term receivables on contracts in progress
Subordinated loan to NHA
1 520
1 520
Convertible loan to Pantera
1 000
Subordinated bond to proton therapy customers
4 688
4 525
Financial notes granted to proton therapy
4 748
4 250
Loan to shareholders
5 769
5 711
Customers with payment terms more than one
1 988
Customers retainers
Long-term financing for a building to a proton
2 583
2 040
Long term deposits
Other assets
Other long-term receivables
23 446
20 939
Research tax credit
11 932
12 804
Other long-term assets
11 932
12 804
TOTAL Non-current receivable and assets
35 378
33 743
7.1
Trade receivable:
The increase in trade receivables amounts to 4.1
EUR million as at December 31, 2023 which is
mainly explained by large milestone invoices
issued in China before the end of the year.
The table below explains the relationship
between expected credit losses and trade
receivables:
(EUR 000)
Not
overdue
Due
from 1
to 90
days
Due from
91 to 180
days
Due from 181
to 270 days
Due from
271 to
360 days
Due
more
than
days
Total
Trade
receivable
Expected credit loss rate
25%
50%
75%
100%
Trade receivables
49 848
47 709
2 087
3 844
3 566
7 959
115 013
Calculated credit loss
1 922
2 675
7 959
13 077
Adjustment for individual balances not at risk
-1 753
-2 624
-5 027
-9 713
Provision for credit loss recognised at
December 31, 2022
2 932
3 364
Trade receivable, net of credit loss allowances
49 848
47 709
1 874
3 675
3 516
5 027
111 649
IBA – Annual Report 2023

(EUR 000)
Not
overdue
Due
from 1
to 90
days
Due from
91 to 180
days
Due from 181
to 270 days
Due from
271 to
360 days
Due
more
than
days
Total
Trade
receivable
Expected credit loss rate
25%
50%
75%
100%
Trade receivables
30 374
26 168
4 357
2 134
47 820
111 315
Calculated credit loss
1 089
1 067
47 820
50 323
Adjustment for individual balances not at risk
-44 704
-46 584
Provision for credit loss recognised at
December 31, 2023
3 116
3 739
Trade receivable, net of credit loss allowances
30 374
26 168
4 053
2 000
44 704
107 576
The adjustment for individual balances overdue
by more than 360 days EUR 44.7 million is
driven by 4 ProtonTherapy equipment projects
and no allowance for credit loss has been
recognised for various reasons, such as projects
on hold with limited exposure, post balance
sheet payments, arbitration procedures ongoing
etc. These are followed closely by Management
who is confident in the ability of IBA to recover
these balances.
The changes in the allowance for doubtful
accounts receivable are as follows:
(EUR 000)
As at January 1
3 960
3 364
Charge for the year
Utilizations
Write-backs
-1 337
Currency translation difference
As at December 31
3 364
3 739
The charge for expected credit loss is included
in “General and Administrative expenses” in the
Income Statement.
7.2
Other receivable and operating
assets
For the year 2023, the other receivable and
operating assets have decreased by EUR -21.9
million, driven by:
The decrease in deposits for EUR -10.8
million;
The release of a EUR -7.3 million payment
from the Russian subsidiary previously
blocked by Belgian authorities as part of a
review
measure
under
the
current
embargo;
The decrease of accrued income from
service contracts for EUR -3.7 million;
A decrease for EUR -1.1 million due to the
reclassification to trade receivable of some
invoices to customers which had extended
payment terms but becoming due in 2024;
The reclassification of prepaid shares to
Other investments as ownership of these
shares was confirmed in January 2023 for
EUR -1.5 million;
The decrease of other Current income tax
receivable for EUR -2.6 million. In 2022,
IBA had an open tax litigation regarding the
deductibility of some R&D expenditures for
EUR 0.9 million which was resolved early
2023 at which point the asset was settled.
The decrease is offset by
IBA has granted a convertible loan to its
Joint Venture Pantera for EUR 1.0 million
which has a maturity July 2026.
The increase of non-trade receivable for
EUR 2.7million. Non-trade receivables are
mainly composed of VAT receivable for
EUR 11.4 million (EUR 8.0 million in 2022)
and grants receivable for EUR 2.8 million
(EUR 2.9 million in 2022).
IBA – Annual Report 2023

8.
Cash and cash equivalents are detailed as follows:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Bank balances and cash
108 366
109 306
Accounts with restrictions shorter than 3 months
Short-term bank deposits
50 000
158 366
109 306
9.
EQUITY
As December 31, 2023, 49.11% of IBA’s stock
was traded on Euronext. Full details of the
Group’s shareholders are set out in the section
“The stock market and shareholders” of this
annual report. In 2023, the General Assembly
has approved a dividend of EUR 0.21 per share
as recommended by IBA’s Board of Directors, for
a total amount of EUR 6.1 million, which has
been paid during the year.
IBA’s Board of Directors intends to recommend
to the General Assembly to pay a dividend of
EUR 0.17 per share in 2024 in order to retain an
engaged long-term shareholding.
Based on the number of shares eligible to a
dividend as at December 3, 2023, this
represents a total amount of EUR 5.0 millions.
The following table shows the movements in the outstanding number of shares over the last two years:
Accounting policy for trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are held by IBA to collect the related cash flows. Trade receivables, other receivables and
prepayment are measured at initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest rate method less impairment losses.
Most of the time, the discounting impact is not significant and receivables are therefore measured at nominal value.
In calculating, the expected credit loss, the Group uses an allowance matrix based on ageing balances adjusted for forward-
looking factors linked to a specific customer. The matrix used is as follow:
25% after 90 days overdue;
50% after 180 days overdue;
75% after 270 days overdue;
100% after 360 days overdue.
The credit loss is further reviewed in detail to take into consideration other customer specific factors such as
re-negotiation, customer refinancing, and guarantees received.
For large Proton Therapy contracts, such analysis is performed considering the overall position of the contract, taking into
account trade receivable, contract asset and contract liabilities. As such, ECL allowances are rarely recognised when the
revenue recognised on the project is lower than the paid invoices.
Accounting policy for cash and cash equivalents
The Company considers all highly liquid investments with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition to
be cash equivalents.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Number of shares
As at January 1
30 197 420
30 260 920
Capital increase
63 500
Purchase of treasury shares
Disposal of treasury shares
As at December 31
30 260 920
30 260 920
The following table shows the details of the different categories of reserves:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Hedging reserves
-8 402
-3 345
Reserves for the stock option plans and share-based compensation
17 779
18 787
Revaluation reserves
-6 408
-9 312
Reserves for defined benefit plan
-1 583
Treasury shares reserve
-18 328
-18 213
Reserves
-15 875
-13 666
Currency translation difference
-5 585
-2 153
Retained earnings
51 431
36 051
The hedging reserves include changes in the fair
value of financial instruments used to hedge
cash flows of future transactions. Hedging
reserves have increased in 2023 following
fluctuation in the foreign currencies as well as
ineffective
portions
instruments
being
released to the Income Statement.
The treasury shares reserve includes shares of
IBA S.A. acquired by group entities and are
valued at acquisition cost. Most of these shares
are held by the Group to cover the Stock Option
Plans and have been acquired in the previous
years with the aim of hedging against share price
fluctuations.
In 2023, the changes of ‘’Revaluation reserves -
Equity instruments at fair value through Profit or
Loss” is related to the reevaluation at fair value
of the other investment in ScandiDos A.B (EUR
-0.2 million) and HIL applied Medical Ltd (EUR -
8 million), see Note 5.5.
The decrease of “Other reserves – Defined
benefit plan” for EUR 1.0 million is further
described in note 5.11.
In 2023, the loans of CNY 45.0 million and CNY
8 million between IBA SA and Ion Beam
Beijing Medical Applications Technology Service
Co. Ltd were netted with other group balances
and settled. These were initially designated as
the Group’s permanent financing in foreign
operations. As a result, the accumulated loss of
EUR -1.0 million kept in currency translation
reserve,
was
recognized
the
Income
Statement in 2023
10. BORROWINGS
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
(EUR '000)
Bank borrowings Leases
Total
Bank borrowings
Leases
Total
Non-current
10 647
20 811
31 458
7 114
21 896
29 010
Current
3 734
5 676
9 410
6 469
6 104
12 573
Total
14 381
26 487
40 868
13 583
28 000
41 583
Opening amount
39 671
29 305
68 976
14 381
26 487
40 868
Amortised cost adjustment after contract modification
Borrowings converted to grants
Repayment of borrowings
-24 734
-7 050
-31 784
-1 000
-7 180
-8 180
New borrowings
3 456
3 456
8 257
8 257
Accretion of interest
Terminations
Currency translation difference
Closing balance
14 381
26 487
40 868
13 583
28 000
41 583
As at December 31, 2023, the bank and other
borrowings include unsecured subordinated
bonds from S.R.I.W. for a total of EUR 10.7
million (EUR 10.5 million in 2022) and an
IBA – Annual Report 2023

unsecured subordinated bond from S.F.P.I. for
EUR 2.9 million (EUR 3.9 million in 2022) as well
as unused revolving (short term) credit facilities
(unchanged from 2022), and unused overdraft
facilities in China.
The term loan of EUR 21 million was fully repaid
in 2022.
The facilities expiring within one year include the
short-term portion of long-term debt, annual
facilities subject to review at various dates during
the 12 months following the end of the financial
year, and uncommitted facilities having no firm
expiry date (available “until further notice”).
Repayment of borrowings relate to S.F.P.I.
bonds (EUR 1.0 million). Due to administrative
delays independent of IBA’s responsibility, the
next reimburment on the the S.R.I.W bonds (due
December 31, 2023) was made on January 2nd,
2024 for EUR 2.7 million.
The
amortised
cost
adjustment
represents the impact of the renegotiation of
future interest rate with the S.R.I.W. and S.F.P.I.
IBA has agreed with the two lenders to decrease
the interest rates, this represents a non-
substantial change to the contract terms in the
sense of IFRS and is treated as a contract
modification. As a result, IFRS 9 requires the
revised future cash flows to be amortised with
the initial effective interest rate, leading to a one
off gain of EUR 0.6 million in 2022 (recognised
in Other financial income in the consolidated
statement of income).
The maturities of bank and other borrowings and
lease liabilities are detailed as follows:
(EUR 000)
Bank borrowings
Leases
Total
Bank borrowings Leases
Total
Due
2 734
2 734
One year or less
3 734
5 679
9 413
3 568
6 104
9 672
Between 1 and 2 years
3 467
4 312
7 779
3 610
4 112
7 722
Between 2 and 5 years
7 180
5 535 12 715
3 671
7 566
11 237
Over 5 years
10 960 10 960
10 217
10 217
TOTAL
14 381
26 486 40 867
13 583
27 999
41 582
The payments of bank and other borrowings and lease liabilities are as follows:
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
(EUR 000)
Bank borrowings
Leases
Total
Bank borrowings Leases
Total
Due
2 734
2 734
One year or less
4 264
6 087 10 351
4 120
6 646 10 766
Between 1 and 2 years
4 120
4 675
8 795
3 980
4 507
8 487
Between 2 and 5 years
7 838
6 074 13 912
3 857
8 113 11 970
Over 5 years
11 291 11 291
10 454 10 454
16 222
28 127 44 349
14 691
29 720 44 411
Future interest expense on bank and other borrowings (-)
-1 841
-1 641
-3 482
-1 108
-1 721
-2 829
TOTAL
14 381
26 486 40 867
13 583
27 999 41 582
10.1 Bank borrowings and credit facilities
The table below outlines the key terms and conditions of the existing credit facilities:
Loan/Credit line
Ranking
Status
Total due
December
31, 2022
(EUR 000)
Carrying
amount
December
31, 2022
(EUR 000)
Total due
December
31, 2023
(EUR 000)
Carrying
amount
December
31, 2023
(EUR 000)
Currency Interest
Maturity Repayment
R.I.W.
Subordinated Unsecured
4 897
4 715
4 897
4 780
EUR
Fixed
Amortizing
R.I.W.
Subordinated Unsecured
2 040
1 964
2 040
1 991
EUR
Fixed
Amortizing
R.I.W.
Subordinated Unsecured
4 000
3 851
4 000
3 905
EUR
Fixed
Amortizing
F.P.I.
Subordinated Unsecured
4 000
3 851
3 000
2 906
EUR
Fixed
Amortizing
Overdraft facility -
China
Senior
Secured
CNY
Floating** UFN ***
Revolving
Revolving credit
facilities
Senior
Secured
EUR
Floating*
Revolving
* EURIBOR + margin dependent on Net Leverage ratio ** MCLR + margin *** Until further notice
IBA – Annual Report 2023

R.I.W. and S.F.P.I. subordinated bonds
R.I.W. and S.F.P.I. are two Belgian public
investment funds (respectively, at regional and
federal level).
Following the terms of the S.R.I.W. and S.F.P.I.
bond agreements, the Group agreed to comply
with a financial covenant relating to the IBA
Group level of equity, which was met as at
December 31, 2023.
Available bank credit facilities
As at December 31, 2023, the Group has at its
disposal credit facilities amounting to EUR 83.1
million of which 23.4% are used (23.4% in 2022).
The bank facilities at IBA SA level include a EUR
40 million revolving credit facility (increase of
EUR 3.0 million compared to 2022, following a
re-negociation).
The financial covenants applying to these
syndicated facilities consist of (a) a maximum net
leverage ratio (calculated as the consolidated
net
senior
indebtedness
divided
the
consolidated REBITDA over the last 12 months)
and (b) a minimum corrected equity level
(calculated as the sum of the consolidated equity
- with certain reclassifications - and the
subordinated indebtedness). Both covenants
were complied with as at December 31, 2023.
In China, the CNY 35 million overdraft facility
(borrower: Ion Beam Applications Co. Ltd) was
maintained for the same amount (undrawn as of
December 31, 2023).
The effective interest rates for bank and other borrowings at the financial position date are as follows:
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
EUR
USD
INR
CNY
EUR
CNY
Bank and other borrowings
33%
00%
n/a - credit
line not
used
n/a - credit line
not used
10%
n/a - credit
line not used
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are all denominated in EUR.
Credit facilities are as follows:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Utilized credit
Facilits de crdit
Utilized credit
Facilits de crdit
Repayment within one year
Repayment beyond one year
41 757
44 458
41 757
44 458
Repayment within one year
3 734
3 734
Repayment beyond one year
10 647
9 848
14 381
13 582
TOTAL
14 381
41 757
13 582
44 458
10.2 Lease liabilities
As at December 31, 2023, the average interest
rate paid on lease liabilities is 2.29% (2.82% as
at December 31, 2022).
As at December 31, 2023 and December 31,
2022, there were no significant undiscounted
potential future rental payments relating to
periods following the exercise date of extension
and termination options that are not included in
the lease term.
(EUR 000)
Credit
facilities
total
amount
Credit
facilities
used
Credit
facilities
available
R.I.W. - subordinated
10 676
10 676
F.P.I. - subordinated
2 906
2 906
Short-term credit facilities
44 458
44 458
TOTAL
58 040
13 582
44 458
IBA – Annual Report 2023

The following are the amounts recognized in the
income statement:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Depreciation expenses of right-of-use assets
5 478
5 657
Interest expenses on lease liabilities
Expenses relating to leases of low-value assets
TOTAL AMOUNT RECOGNIZED IN INCOME STATEMENT
6 648
6 795
11. LONG-TERM AND SHORT-TERM PROVISIONS
(EUR 000)
Environment Warranties Litigation
Defined
employee
benefits
Other
employee
benefits
Other
Total
As at January 1, 2022
4 678
5 444
4 226
14 878
Additions (+)
3 877
1 928
7 200
Write-backs (-)
-1 059
-1 057
Utilizations (-)
-1 207
-2 248
Actuarial (gains)/losses generated during the year
-3 549
-3 549
Currency translation difference
Total movement
1 565
-2 718
As at December 31, 2022
6 243
2 726
5 167
15 126
As at January 1, 2023
6 243
2 726
5 167
15 126
Additions (+)
4 214
2 348
6 891
Write-backs (-)
-2 492
-2 162
-4 810
Utilizations (-)
-1 114
-1 190
-3 075
Actuarial (gains)/losses generated during the year
1 068
1 068
Currency translation difference
Total movement
-1 118
As at December 31, 2023
6 829
3 087
4 049
15 030
Provisions for warranties cover warranties
for machines sold to customers.
Other provisions as at December 31, 2023
consisted primarily of the following:
Provisions for onerous contracts for
EUR 3.4 million
A provision for restructuring for EUR 0.5
million to cover the costs related to the
Accounting policy for borrowings and lease liabilities
Bank borrowings:
Bank borrowings are interest bearing and are a financial instrument initially recognised at fair value and subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the EIR method. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of
profit or loss.
Lease liabilities :
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognizes lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease
payments to be made over the lease term. Some leases have variable lease payments that depend on an index in which case
an initial estimation is prepared using the local relevant index; when the actual indexe is known, the future cash flows are
reassessed and the lease liabilities are adjusted with the corresponding Right of Use asset.
In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease
commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. The Group does apply the
short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases and the low-value assets recognition exemption to lease for
office equipment, hardware and vehicles that are considered to be low value.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Dynamitron business wind down not yet
incurred as described in Note 4.4.
Movements can be detailed as follows:
New warranty provisions primarily in
relation to Proton therapy and other
accelerators amounting to EUR 4.2
million following delivery of several
projects to customers.
New
provisions
for
the
onerous
maintenance contracts for EUR 1.8
million. This increase results from the
reforecast and increased losses on 1
contract
that
became
onerous
previously. The main assumptions used
were a 2% yearly inflation, cost savings
initiatives and a discount rate of 2% to
reflect the impact of time.
Utilisation and reversals of onerous
contract provision for maintenance
contracts which have been revised
and/or re-negotiated with customers for
EUR 3.3 million.
Reversals of warranty provisions in
relation to Proton therapy and other
accelerators amounting to EUR -2.5
million following the end of warranty
periods.
Utilizations of warranty provisions in
relation to Proton therapy and other
accelerators amounting to EUR -1.1
million
11.1 Defined employee benefit
In Belgium, the Group operates a contribution-
based plan funded through payments to an
insurance company. The employer guarantees a
minimum return on employer contributions
resulting in a financial risk to be borne by the
Group.
Since January 1, 2016, the Group uses the
projected unit credit method.
In India, the Group also operates a defined
benefit pension plan, for which the benefit liability
is EUR 0.1 million as at December 31, 2023.
Given the immateriality of that plan, only the plan
in Belgium is presented below. Changes in the
present value of defined benefit obligations are
presented as follows:
Accounting policy for provisions
The main categories of provisions are recognised as follow:
Warranty provision
Most equipment sales have the legal contractual warranty for a period of 1 year and the warranty period starts when the
equipment is accepted by the customer. Provisions for product warranty are recognized as cost of sales.
Onerous contract provision
If IBA has an onerous contract (that is, if the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the
economic benefits expected to be received under it), the present obligation under the contract is recognized as a provision
against cost of sales. The provision is reassessed at least 3 times a year.
The group applies the most likely amount method to estimate these provisions
Source of estimation uncertainty and critical judgments
Onerous contracts for services:
The Group recognises a provision of onerous contract when the unavoidable costs of fullfilling the contract exceed the
economic benefits expected to be received. This is the case when a service contract is expected to generate negative margin
in the remaining years. For each contract presenting a risk, the expected margin for the remaining years of the initial term
is calculated based on the latest available reforecast of the future costs to complete IBA’s obligations. The margin is then
discounted using a risk-free rate.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

(EUR 000)
January
1, 2022
Service
cost
Net
interest
expenses
Actuarial change
arising from
change in financial
assumptions
Contributions
by employer
Deferred
population
Benefits
plan
December
31, 2022
Defined benefit
obligation
-13 688
-3 266
5 618
-2 973
-13 893
Fair value of plan assets
8 308
-2 091
2 116
2 973
11 230
Benefit liability
-5 380
-3 266
3 527
2 515
-2 663
(EUR 000)
January
1, 2023
Service
cost
Net
interest
expenses
Actuarial change
arising from
change in financial
assumptions
Contributions
by employer
Deferred
population
Benefits
plan
December
31, 2023
Defined benefit
obligation
-13 893
-1 674
-1 538
-16 928
Fair value of plan assets
11 230
2 089
13 907
Benefit liability
-2 663
-1 674
-1 115
2 487
-3 021
The employee benefit provisions have been
calculated based on the following assumptions:
At December 31, 2022:
Discount rate: 3.75%
Mortality table: IABE
Inflation rate: 2.2%
Salary adjustment rate: 3.10% per annum
Retirement age: 66
At December 31, 2023:
Discount rate: 3.5%
Mortality table: IABE
Inflation rate: 2.20%
Salary adjustment rate: 3.1% per annum
Retirement age: 66
The impact on the benefit liability of the fluctuation of the discount rate is as follows:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Discount rate 0.25% increase
-2 006
-2 274
Discount rate applied
-2 663
-3 021
Discount rate 0.25% decrease
-3 259
-3 800
The impact on the benefit liability of the fluctuation of the salary adjustment rate is as follows:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Salary adjustment rate 0.25% increase
-2 491
-2 802
Salary adjustment rate applied
-2 663
-3 021
Salary adjustment rate 0.25% decrease
-2 841
-3 239
IBA – Annual Report 2023

12. TRADE PAYABLES AND OTHER OPERATING
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Current
Trade payable
65 559
76 564
Payroll debts
28 653
31 005
Accrued charges
2 302
2 096
Capital grants
2 912
1 906
Non-trade payables
16 217
9 801
Refund liability
5 000
Current income tax payables
3 853
1 723
Advances received from local government
1 293
1 054
Other
1 486
2 912
Total other current payable
61 716
50 497
Deferred income related to maintenance contracts
17 715
20 140
Total other current liabilities
17 715
20 140
Total current operating liabilities
144 990
147 201
Non-current
Advances received from local government
2 389
Business combination earn out
Retainer applied to vendor's invoices
1 139
Deferred payment of social debts
Debt to acquire a loan to a customer
1 317
Other
Total non-current operating liabilities
5 862
2 955
Accounting policy for defined contribution plans
The Group operates a contribution-based plan funded through payments to an insurance company. IBA guarantees a
minimum return on employer contributions resulting in a financial risk to be borne by the Group.
Following the evolution with respect of minimum guaranteed return, the plans are to be considered as defined benefit plans
and are accounted for using the projected unit credit method. This method considers that each service period gives rise to
an additional benefit entitlement unit. According to this method, the plans’ cost is recognized as an expense in the income
statement so as to spread this cost evenly throughout the employee’s career, and this based on the recommendations of
actuaries who carry out complete assessments on these retirement plans each year.
Actuarial differences include, for assets and liabilities, differences between previous actuarial assumptions and what
actually happened, and the impact of changes of actuarial assumptions on the plans’ liabilities. Actuarial differences are
fully recorded in other items of the comprehensive income statement during their period of occurrence.
Source of estimation uncertainty and critical judgments
Estimating the defined benefit obligations
To make the actuarial calculations for the valuation of defined benefit obligations, IBA needs me make assumptions for
interest rates, future pension increases, life expectancy and employee turnover rates. The actuarial calculations are made
by external actuaries based on inputs from observable market data, such as corporate bond returns and yield curves to
determine the discount rates to apply, mortality tables to determine life expectancy and inflation rates to determine future
salary and pension growth assumptions.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

12.1 Trade payables
As at December 31, the payment schedule for
trade payables was as follows:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Due
20 793
33 595
Due in less than 3 months
16 051
5 987
Due between 4-12 months
28 715
36 981
TOTAL
65 559
76 564
The increase is primarily driven by an increased
level of purchases to support the group’s
business growth.
12.2 Other current and non-
current liabilities
Advances from local governments amount to
EUR 1.9 million as at December 31, 2023 and
have decreased (2022: EUR 3.7 million)
following the scheduled repayments made
during the year.
In 2022, the liabilities also included the refund
liability related to the CGN contract as
described in Note 4.3 for EUR 5.0 million. As
the performance bond was fully released at the
end of 2023, the amount has been recognized
as a revenue in the year.
The non-trade payables of EUR 9.8 million
(2022: EUR 16.2 million) represent primarily
VAT due in different countries where the Group
operates. The significant decrease is driven by
a high level of customer invoices raised at the
end of 2022.
Stock options and share-based payments
Stock option plans launched in 2014 and 2015
have the following vesting scheme: 100 percent
vesting as at December 31, 2018 and can be
exercised until June 30, 2024.
In 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, no stock option
plan has been launched.
The options granted under the stock option
plans launched in 2020 vested on 2 January
2024 and fifty percent of these options can be
exercised until May 31, 2026 while the
remaining fifty percent can be exercised until
May 31, 2030.
In January 2021, 649 972 stock options (the
"Stock Options") were granted to members of
the Group top management (including some
determined persons), the “Head Plan”. Each
Stock Option allows its beneficiary to subscribe
to one newly issued share or receive the
Company own shares against payment of a
strike. The plan allows for further additional new
persons to join the plan at a later stage; strike,
vesting dates and expiry dates may vary. In
2021, after the initial plan launch, 38 346 more
options were issued followed by 16 839 in 2022
Accounting policy for trade and other payables
Trade and other payable are recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured at amortised cost.
Accounting policy government grants
When IBA receives government grants for specific projects, these are kept as a deferred income in the liabilities
on the statement of financial position and IBA unwinds the income when the relevant expenses are incurred, shown net in
the R&D expenditure line.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

and another 79 825 in 2023. The details of
these are provided in the second table below.
Details of the valuation of the options granted in
2023 are given in this section:
Option plan
Type of plan
Stock option
Date of grant
March 24, 2023 ; July 13, 2023; December 20, 2023
Number of options granted
79 825.00
Exercise price
6 ; 15.74 ; 10.76
Share price at date of grant
59 ; 15.79 ; 10.75
Contractual life (years)
78 ; 5.47 ; 5.04
Settlement
Shares
Expected volatility
26% ; 47.33% . 45.57%
Risk-free interest rate
43% ; 2.93% ; 2.23%
Expected dividend (stated as % of share price at grant date)
02
Expected departures at grant date
04
Fair value per granted option at grant date
26 ; 6.4 ; 4.0
Valuation model
Black & Scholes
As at December 31, 2023, the Group recognised
EUR 1.0 million as other operating expenses for
employee stock options (EUR 0.9 million in
2022).
The stock options outstanding as at December
31 have the following expiration dates and
exercise prices:
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Expiration date
Exercise price
(EUR)
Number of stock options
Exercise price
(EUR)
Number of stock
options
June 30, 2024
52
63 500
52
53 500
June 30, 2024
84
20 000
84
20 000
May 31, 2026
54
172 500
54
166 250
May 31, 2030
54
172 500
54
166 250
December 31, 2026
39
631 997
39
627 204
December 31, 2026
77
7 190
77
7 190
December 31, 2026
39
31 156
39
19 173
December 31, 2027
15
16 839
15
16 839
December 31, 2028
n/a
n/a
60
14 117
December 31, 2028
n/a
n/a
74
19 708
December 31, 2028
n/a
n/a
76
46 000
TOTAL outstanding stock options
1 115 682
1 156 231
Stock option movements can be summarized as follows:
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Average exercise
price in EUR per
share
Number of stock options
Average exercise
price in EUR per
share
Number of stock
options
Outstanding as at January 1
40
1 119 153
92
1 115 682
Issued
15
16 839
20
79 825
Forfeited (-)
54
-5 000
30
-29 276
Exercised (-)
52
-15 310
52
-10 000
Expired (-)
Outstanding as at December 31
92
1 115 682
10
1 156 231
Exercisable as at December 31
82 500
73 500
Accounting policy for share-based transactions
Share-based payments are transactions to be paid with shares, stock options, or other equity instruments (granted to
employees). These plans often include certain vesting conditions such as continuous employment for a period of time. As
the fair value of goods or services received in exchange for the employee options cannot be determined, the Group uses the
fair value of the equity instruments granted.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Description of financial risk management
(sections 3:6, 1, 8 and 3:32, 1, 5, of the
BCAC)
1.
The Group has decided to present its financial
risks with the other principal identified risks in
the section ‘’Principal risks and uncertainties
faced by the company’’ starting on page 51.
These include credit risk, foreign currency risk,
interest rate risk, liquidity risk, covenant risks.
2.
The Group’s aim is to optimize the capital
structure in order to maximize its value for the
shareholders while maintaining the financial
flexibility required carrying out the strategy
approved by the Board of Directors.
3.
The tables below summarize the maturity profile
of the Group’s financial assets and financial
liabilities:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
Due
< 1 year
1-2 years
2-5 years
> 5 years Total contractual cash flows
Trade receivables
61 801
49 848
111 649
Other ST and LT assets
83 624
4 964
4 424
14 101
107 824
TOTAL
62 512
133 472
4 964
4 424
14 101
219 473
December 31, 2023
Due
< 1 year
1-2 years
2-5 years
> 5 years Total contractual cash flows
Trade receivables
77 202
30 374
107 576
Other ST and LT assets
57 824
2 977
6 778
11 432
79 304
TOTAL
77 495
88 198
2 977
6 778
11 432
186 880
All transactions involving share-based payments are recognized as expenses in Other operating expenses and IBA
constitutes a reserve for share-based payments. On vesting, exercise or forfeiture of the options, IBA does not transfer any
amount from this reserve to other components of equity.
Reversals of expense may however occur when vesting conditions are not met and claims are forfeited.
Source of estimation uncertainty and critical judgments
The Company used the Black & Scholes model to value options, with no vesting conditions other than time. Expected
volatility for the stock option plans is based on historical volatility determined by statistical analysis of daily share price
movements. The exercise price of shares for the stock option plans was based on the average share price for the 30 days
preceding the grant date.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
Due
< 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years > 5 years Total contractual cash flows
Bank and other borrowings *
4 265
3 934
7 467
15 666
Lease liabilities *
6 087
4 720
6 074
11 246
28 127
Trade payables
20 791
44 701
65 492
Other ST and LT liabilities
61 709
4 027
2 722
68 791
TOTAL
20 791
116 762
12 681
16 263
11 579
178 076
December 31, 2023
Due
< 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years > 5 years Total contractual cash flows
Bank and other borrowings
2 734
4 120
3 980
3 857
14 691
Lease liabilities
6 646
4 507
8 113
10 454
29 720
Trade payables
33 595
42 992
76 587
Other ST and LT liabilities
49 146
2 306
52 318
TOTAL
36 329
102 904
10 793
12 560
10 730
173 316
*The bank and other borrowings and the lease liabilities shown above include the future interest payments for EUR 1.3 million
and EUR 1.7 million respectively.
As at December 31, 2022 and 2023, the net
carrying value of these financial assets and
liabilities did not differ significantly from their fair
value.
The headings “Hedging derivative products” and
“Derivative products – other” in assets and
liabilities include the fair value of forward
exchange contracts and currency swaps.
The table below summarises the financial assets held by IBA:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Non-current Current
Fair value
Non-current
Current Fair value
At fair value through OCI
3 806
3 806
2 438
2 438
Shares in listed entities
Shares in non-listed entities
2 811
2 811
1 595
1 595
At fair value through Profit and loss
1 249
Derivative hedge-accounted financial assets
1 056
Derivatives assets at fair value through the
income statement
At amortised cost
23 445 351 937
375 382
20 940
274 260
295 200
Trade receivables
0 111 649
111 649
107 576
107 576
Subordinated loans
6 208
6 274
6 045
6 248
Bonds and non-subordinated loans
15 088
15 977
13 851
14 790
Cash deposits
11 138
11 459
Cash and cash equivalents
0 158 366
158 366
109 306
109 306
Others financial assets
1 828
69 829
71 657
55 927
56 607
TOTAL
27 293 352 097
379 390
23 888
274 999
298 887
IBA – Annual Report 2023

The table below summarises the financial liabilities held by IBA:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Non-current Current
Fair value
Non-current
Current Fair value
At fair value through Profit and loss
1 221
2 907
4 128
Derivative hedge-accounted financial
liabilities
1 687
2 531
Derivatives liabilities at fair value through the
income statement
1 220
1 597
At amortised cost
37 320 136 684
171 067
31 965
139 634
174 427
Trade payables
65 559
65 559
76 564
76 564
Bank borrowings and lease liabilities
31 458
9 410
43 793
29 010
12 573
44 411
Refund liabilities
5 000
5 000
Other operating liabilities
5 862
52 862
52 862
2 955
48 774
51 729
Tax payable
3 853
3 853
1 723
1 723
TOTAL
38 541 139 591
175 195
32 182
140 189
175 199
Accounting policy
Classification and measurement
Financial assets:
The classification and measurement of the Group’s financial assets are, as follows:
Debt instruments at amortized cost: this category includes the Group’s Trade receivables, long-term receivables on
contracts in progress, other receivables and loans included under other long-term assets, non-trade receivables/advance
payments, short-term receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Equity instruments at FVOCI, with no recycling of gains or losses to profit or loss on derecognition. This category only
includes equity instruments (other investments), which the Group intends to hold for the foreseeable future and which the
Group has irrevocably elected to so classify upon initial recognition or transition. The Group classified its unquoted equity
instruments as equity instruments at FVOCI. Equity instruments at FVOCI are not subject to an impairment assessment
under IFRS 9.
Financial assets at FVPL comprise mainly derivative instruments.
Derivative instruments
Derivative instruments are accounted for at fair value on the date the contracts are entered into and the group applies
hedge accounting for some instruments that meet some criteria, such as materiality or risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are accounted for in the income statement unless they qualify as cash
flow hedges.
The Group designates certain derivative transactions as hedges of the variability of the fair value of recognized assets or
liabilities (fair value hedges); as unrecognized firm commitments represented by future sales; or as hedges of the cash flow
variability arising from a specific risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or with a highly probable forecast
transaction (cash flow hedges).
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged
item, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also
documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Cash flow hedges
Derivative financial instruments used for the protection of future cash flows are designated as hedges under cash flow hedge
accounting.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

4.
The following table provides an analysis of
financial
instruments
that
are
measured
subsequent to initial recognition at fair value,
grouped into Levels 1 to 3.
During this past financial year, there was no
transfer
between
the
various
categories
presented below:
(EUR 000)
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
December 31, 2022
Forward foreign exchange contracts and swaps - through Other
Comprehensive Income
Forward foreign exchange contracts and swaps - through Profit
and loss
Derivative financial assets
Equity instruments at fair value (Note 9.1.)
2 753
3 747
Forward foreign exchange contracts and swaps - through Other
Comprehensive Income
-2 531
-2 531
Forward foreign exchange contracts and swaps - through Profit
and loss
-1 597
-1 597
Derivative financial liabilities
-4 128
-4 128
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is
recognized in equity. Gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognized immediately in the income
statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects the
income statement (e.g., when the revenue from the forecast sale that is hedged is recognised).
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity
and is reclassified to the income statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognized in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is
immediately moved to the income statement.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Such derivatives are recognized at fair value on the
statement of financial position, with changes in fair value recognized in the income statement.
These instruments are considered economic hedges as the Group does not hold instruments for speculative purposes.
Financial liabilities:
Initial recognition and measurement
The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, and
derivative financial instruments.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent measurement
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial liabilities are classified in two categories:
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: This category mainly includes derivative financial
instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as
defined by IFRS 9 and explained above
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (loans and borrowings): This is the category most relevant to the Group.
More details on this method given in Note 7.3.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

(EUR 000)
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
December 31, 2023
Forward foreign exchange contracts and swaps - through Other
Comprehensive Income
1 056
1 056
Forward foreign exchange contracts and swaps - through Profit
and loss
Derivative financial assets
1 249
1 249
Equity instruments at fair value (Note 9.1.)
1 595
2 438
Forward foreign exchange contracts and swaps - through Other
Comprehensive Income
Forward foreign exchange contracts and swaps - through Profit
and loss
Derivative financial liabilities
4.1 Derivatives financial
instruments
Some of these financial instruments are
designated as hedging instruments as they
hedge specific exchange rate risks to which the
Group is exposed. Hedge accounting has been
applied to these contracts because they are
deemed to be highly effective hedges. Those
transactions are highly probable as they are
linked to existing contracts. For these cash flow
hedges, movements are recognized directly in
other comprehensive income and released to
the income statement to offset the impact of the
underlying transactions.
As at December 31, 2023, this is represented
by cash flow hedges with the following
balances: EUR 1.1 million as short-term and
long-term financial assets (EUR -0.1 million in
2022) and EUR -0.4 million (EUR -2.5 million in
2022) as short-term and long-term financial
liabilities.
In 2023, a profit of EUR 5.1 million (2022:
immaterial profit) was therefore recorded in
other comprehensive income, impacting equity
(under “Hedging Reserves in equity”) resulting
in accumulated loss amounting to EUR 3.3
million as at December 31, 2023 (2022: EUR
4 million).
The changes of fair value of the derivatives
which are not accounted for using hedge
accounting are recognised in the Income
Statement.
As at December 31, 2023, this is represented
by cash flow hedges with the following
balances: EUR 0.2 million as short-term and
long-term financial assets (EUR 0.1 million in
2022) and EUR -0.3 million (EUR -1.6 million in
2022) as short-term and long-term financial
liabilities.
In 2023, a gain of EUR 0.5 million (2022: loss of
EUR 6.6 million) on these instruments was
therefore recorded in the income statement.
Hedge-accounted derivative financial
instruments
IBA assesses the hedge effectiveness through
a critical terms match between the hedged item
(future probable cash flows) and the hedging
instrument including amount and maturity.
Some limited ineffectiveness may however
arise when actual timing of cash flows differs
from the initial expectation and the hedging
position has to be rolled-over as a result.
As at December 31, 2023, the Group held 18
forward
exchange
contracts
(17
December 31, 2022) and 9 foreign exchange
swaps (7 as at December 31, 2022) to cover
future cash flow movements in US dollars,
Canadian dollars, Chinese Yuan and Korean
Won.
Derivative at fair value through profit or
loss
As at December 31, 2023, the Group holds 2
forward exchange contracts (14 on December
31, 2022), 6 exchange rate swaps (8 swaps as
at December 31, 2022), to cover future cash
flows of US dollars and Chinese Yuan.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
Equity
< 1 year
1-2 years
> 2 years
CAD
CNY
-4 354
-1 436
-2 213
SGD
USD
-3 319
-2 533
KRW
-8 403
-4 507
-1 683
-2 213
December 31, 2023
Equity
< 1 year
1-2 years
> 2 years
CAD
CNY
-2 538
-2 352
USD
-1 214
KRW
-3 345
-3 780
4.2 Financial assets at fair
value through OCI
These are investments in shares where IBA
does not have any control nor significant
influence. More details on these financial
assets are to be found in Note 5.4.
5.
FINANCIAL ASSETS AT AMORTISED COST
This category mainly includes cash equivalents,
deposits, loans to customers and related parties
as well as financial bonds that IBA subscribed
to. More details are to be found in Note 6.2.
Accounting policy
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Derivatives:
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is either the quoted market price or is calculated using pricing. Fair values
of hedging instruments are determined by valuation techniques widely used in financial markets that are taking into account
current market rates as well as the trade dates of the underlying transactions and are provided by reliable financial
information sources.
The fair value of these instruments generally reflects the estimated amount that IBA would receive on the settlement of
favorable contracts or be required to pay to terminate unfavorable contracts at the financial position date, and thereby
takes into account any unrealized gains or losses on open contracts.
Other financial assets:
Other financial assets at fair value are equity investments held by IBA. The fair value is determined, according to the fair
value hierarchy described below. In case of Level 3 measurement, valuation technique usually includes a discounted cash
flow method based on the investee’s forecasted performance.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement, describes 3 Levels of fair value based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1
that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques for which the lowest level of input
that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Cash flow statement
The cash flow statement is prepared in accordance with the indirect method.
1.
(EUR 000)
Note
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net profit/(loss) for the period
6 057
-9 110
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and impairment of tangible assets
8, 23.1
8 989
9 774
Depreciation and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill
2
1 722
1 747
Write-off on receivables
1
Changes in fair value of financial assets (profits)/losses
-3 591
Changes in provisions
6 143
2 074
Deferred taxes
-11 244
1 898
Share of result of associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method
1
Other non-cash items
-7 864
-5 478
Net cash flow changes before changes in working capital
2 185
Trade receivables, other receivables and deferrals
-72 997
3 716
Inventories and contracts in progress
66 009
-53 159
Trade payables, other payables and accruals
40 720
11 354
Other short-term assets and liabilities
-7 615
19 564
Changes in working capital
26 117
-18 525
Net income tax paid/received
-4 418
-2 521
Interest expense
2 049
Interest income
-1 496
-1 650
Net cash (used)/generated from operations
21 712
-19 769
As at December 31, 2023, the heading “Other
non-cash items” mainly includes the partial
release of the refund liability related to the
performance bond issued to CGN (EUR -5.0
million), the gain on the contribution in kind to
Pantera (-EUR 2.2 million), the future tax credits
to be received and recognised in the current year
for the research activities of IBA, net of
discounting impact (EUR -3.1 million), the impact
of grant amortisation and discounting (EUR -1.0
million), the revaluation and unwinding of
interests on long term loans and bonds (EUR -
3 million), the impact of hyperinflation in
Argentina (EUR 1.9 million), the costs of the
stock option plan (EUR +1.0 million) and the net
impact of losses and write-downs on inventories
(EUR +2.4 million).
As at December 31, 2022, the heading mainly
included the partial release of the refund liability
related to the performance bond issued to CGN
(EUR -5.0 million), the return in stock of a Proton
Therapy equipment from a bankrupt site, net of
the uncollected amounts (EUR -2.5 million), a
financial gain recognised on the interest rates
renegotiation with the S.F.P.I and S.R.I.W (EUR
-0.6 million), the net gain from a settlement
agreement with a former partner in Italy (EUR -
9 million), the future tax credits to be received
and recognised in the current year for the
research activities of IBA (EUR -2.0 million), the
impact of grant amortisation and discounting
(EUR
-2.3
million),
the
revaluation
and
unwinding of interests on long term loans and
bonds (EUR -0.7 million), the costs of the stock
option plan (EUR +0.9 million) and the net
impact of losses and write-downs on inventories
(EUR +0.5 million).
IBA – Annual Report 2023

2.
(EUR 000)
Note
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment
-3 231
-5 265
Acquisition of intangible assets
2
-4 098
-7 049
Repayment received on shareholder loan
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired
1
-8 679
Acquisition of third-party and equity-accounted investments
1
-3 091
Other investing cash flows
Net cash (used)/generated from investing activities
-19 135
-12 324
The main investing cash flows of 2023
represents the acquisitions of a business
(Fluidomica) and the convertible loand granted
to the Joint Venture (Pantera, EUR 1.0 million).
3.
(EUR 000)
Note
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Repayment of borrowings
-24 734
-1 000
Repayment of lease liabilities
2
-6 074
-6 489
Interest paid
-2 311
Interest received
1 496
1 650
Capital increase (or proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares)
Dividends paid
-5 579
-6 121
(Acquisitions)/disposal of treasury of shares
-5 160
Other financing cash flows
-1 778
Net cash (used)/generated from financing activities
-41 476
-14 384
As at December 31, 2023, “Other financing
cash flows” includes new payment of grants in
Belgium and advances from local government
in Belgium for EUR +0.1 million (2022: EUR
+1.3 million) and repayments of advances from
local government in Belgium for EUR -1.9
million (2022: EUR -0.5 million).
Litigation
The Group is currently not involved in any
significant
litigation.
The
potential
risks
connected to minor proceedings are deemed to
be either groundless or insignificant, or when
the risk of payment of potential damages seems
actual, are either adequately covered by
provisions or insurance policies.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Commitments, contingent liabilities and
contingent assets
1. COMMITMENTS
1.1 Financial guarantees
As at December 31, 2023, IBA held financial
guarantees for EUR 140.6 million given by
Group’s business units as security for debts or
commitments, mainly in advance payment
guarantees (EUR 164.6 million as at December
31, 2022).
The Group is paying financial interest at a fixed
rate on its financial guarantees. The interest
depends on the duration of the guarantee.
Therefore, the Group is not exposed to financial
credit risk.
1.2 Other commitments
As at December 31, 2023, IBA had signed
leases for future Rights of Use assets for a total
of EUR 6.1 million (EUR 3.9 million as at
December 31, 2022) related to company cars
which are on order for delivery as from 2024.
2. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
As at December 31, 2023, IBA did not identify any contingent liabilities.
3. CONTINGENT ASSETS
The Group has filed an insurance claim on faulty
parts. As the claim does not meet all the criteria
to be recognised as an asset on the balance
sheet, the group presents this as a contingent
asset. The best estimate of Management for the
insurance indemnity to be received is EUR 0.5
million (unchanged from 2022).
Related party transactions
Identification of related parties
The following parties are considered to be related to IBA:
Key management personnel: the members of the management team.
Associates and Joint ventures of IBA Group (Note 12.2)
Shareholder with significant influence (Sustainable Anchorage SRL)
IBA – Annual Report 2023

1. TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATED
COMPANIES (ASSOCIATES AND JOINT
VENTURES)
The main transactions completed with affiliated companies (companies accounted for using the equity
accounting method) are the following:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
ASSETS
Receivables
Long-term receivables
1 520
2 520
Inventory and contracts in progress
Trade and other receivables
3 045
Impairment of receivables
1 520
5 565
Payables
Trade and other payables
Sales
3 955
6 415
Costs (-)
Financial income
Financial expense (-)
Other operating income
Other operating expense (-)
3 955
6 415
2. SHAREHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIPS
The following table shows IBA shareholders as at December 31, 2023:
Number of shares
Sustainable Anchorage SRL
6 204 668
49%
IBA Investments SCRL
51 973
17%
IBA SA
1 100 781
64%
Management Anchorage SRL (previously IB Anchorage)
348 530
15%
UCL
426 885
41%
Sopartec SA
180 000
59%
SRIW SA
715 491
36%
SFPI SA
58 200
19%
Belfius Insurance SA
1 189 196
93%
FUP Institute of RadioElements
1 423 271
70%
Paladin Asset Mgmt
768 765
54%
BlackRock, Inc.
407 194
34%
BNP Paris
528 425
75%
Norges Bank Investment Management
1 133 108
74%
Kempen Capital Management NV
875 388
89%
Public
14 870 343
11%
TOTAL
30 282 218
00%
IBA – Annual Report 2023

The main transactions completed with the shareholders are the following:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
ASSETS
Receivables
Long-term receivables
5 807
5 711
Trade and other receivables
Impairment of receivables
5 834
5 894
Payables
Bank and other borrowings
18 671
13 583
Trade and other payables
18 777
13 583
Sales
Costs (-)
Financial income
Financial expense (-)
-1 075
Other operating income
Other operating expense (-)
-1 264
The long-term receivables relate to the loan
issued to Management Anchorage and the bank
and other borrowings relate to the loans from
the S.R.IW. and S.F.P.I. The loan issued to
Management Anchorage bears an interest of
35% per year and the principal is reimbursed
in two stages: yearly with a variable amount
linked to IBA’s dividends proceeds and a final
reimbursement on the term of the loan, being
August 30th, 2031.
To the best of the Company’s knowledge, there
are
other
relationships
special
agreements
among
the
shareholders
December 31, 2023.
3. DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT
The remuneration of the key management personnel is as follow
Compensation of key management personnel of the
group
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Short-term employee benefits
2 071
2 117
Post-employment pension
Share-base payment transactions
Total compensation
2 156
2 158
The amounts disclosed in the table are the amounts recognised as an expense during the reporting
period related to key management personnel.
The full remuneration report can be found on page 70.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

List of subsidiaries and equity-accounted
investments
As at December 31, 2023, IBA Group consists of IBA SA and 29 companies and associates in 16
countries. 25 of them are fully consolidated and 4 are accounted for using the equity method.
1. LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES
NAME
Place of incorporation
Equity ownership (%)
Equity ownership (%)
IBA Participations SRL
LLN, Belgium
100%
100%
IBA Investments SCRL
LLN, Belgium
100%
100%
Ion Beam Beijing Applications Co. Ltd.
Beijing, China
100%
100%
IBA RadioIsotopes France SAS
Lyon, France
100%
100%
IBA Dosimetry Ltd.
Schwarzenbruck, Germany
100%
100%
IBA Dosimetry America Inc.
Bartlett, USA
100%
100%
IBA Proton Therapy Inc.
Edgewood New York, USA
100%
100%
IBA Industrial Inc.
Edgewood New York, USA
100%
100%
IBA USA Inc.
Edgewood New York, USA
100%
100%
IBA Particle Therapy Ltd.
Schwarzenbruck, Germany
100%
100%
LLC Ion Beam Applications
Moscow, Russia
100%
100%
IBA Particle Therapy India Private Limited
Chennai, India
100%
100%
IBA Dosimetry India Private Limited 2
Mumbai, India
100%
Ion Beam Application SRL
Buenos Aires, Argentina
100%
100%
IBA Japan KK
Tokyo, Japan
100%
100%
Ion Beam Applications Singapore PTE. Ltd
Singapore, Singapore
100%
100%
IBA Egypt LLC
Cairo, Egypt
100%
100%
Ion Beam Applications Limited
Taipei, China
100%
100%
IBA Proton Therapy Canada, Inc.
Quebec, Canada
100%
100%
IBA Georgia LLC
Tbilisi, Georgia
100%
100%
Modus Medical Devices Inc
Ontario, Canada
100%
100%
IBA Dosimetry Co Ltd.
Shanghai, China
100%
100%
Fluidomica Lda1
Cantanhede, Portugal
100%
Ion Beam Applications Korea, Ltd.
Gyeonggi-do, South Korea
100%
100%
IBA Proton Therapy Israel Ltd 3
Tel Aviv, Israel
100%
1 Subsidiary acquired in March 2023
2 Subsidiary set up in July 2023
3 Subsidiary set up in September 2023
IBA – Annual Report 2023

2. LIST OF EQUITY-ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS
NAME
Country of incorporation
Equity ownership (%)
Equity ownership (%)
Cyclhad SAS
France
33%
33%
Normandy Hadrontherapy SAS
France
81%
81%
Normandy Hadrontherapy SARL
France
00%
00%
Pantera NV/SA
Belgium
00%
00%
IBA does not account for its share of the loss in
Cyclhad SAS and Normandy Hadrontherapy
SAS above the value of its investment as there
is no commitment to participate in any potential
future capital increase. The unrecognised
losses from these participations are mentionned
in note 5.5).
Fees for services rendered by the statutory
auditors
EY Rviseurs d’Entreprises SRL, auditors of the
statutory accounts of IBA SA and auditors of the
consolidated accounts of IBA, provided the
following services during the year:
(EUR 000)
December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Remuneration for statutory audits and audit of consolidated accounts
Other audit work and reports
TOTAL
Events after the reporting date
IBA sold the first Cyclone KEY, launched
enable
small
and
medium-sized
hospitals
produce
their
own
radiopharmaceutical products in-house, for
installation at a hospital in Benin.
IBA
acquired
US-based
Radcal
Corporation, a pioneer in X-ray imaging
quality assurance. The acquisition is
anticipated to be revenue accretive and
EBIT positive from 2024 onwards, and will
further strengthen IBA Dosimetry’s product
offering.
IBA subscribed to a convertible loan issued
by PanTera for EUR 3.5 millions to further
support the development of the production
of Ac.225.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Glossary of alternative performance
measures (APM)
Gross profit
Definition: Gross profit is the difference of the
aggregate amount recognized on “Sales” and
“Services” after deducting the costs associated
with the construction and production of the
associated
equipment
and
incurred
connection with the provision of the operation
and maintenance services.
Reason:
Gross
profit
indicates
IBA’s
performance by showing how it is able to
generate revenue from the expenses incurred in
the construction, operation and maintenance of
dosimetry,
proton-therapy
and
other
accelerators.
EBIT
Definition: Earning before interests and taxes
(‘‘EBIT’’) shows the performance of the group (or
segment) before financial income/expenses and
taxes. It shows all operating income and
expenses incurred during the period.
Reason: EBIT is a useful performance indicator
as it shows IBA’s operational performance of the
period by eliminating the impact of the financial
transactions and taxes.
REBIT
Definition: Recurring earning before interests
and taxes (‘‘REBIT’’) shows the result of the
group
(or
segment)
before
financial
income/expenses and taxes and before the
other operating income and other operating
expenses. REBIT is an indicator of a company's
profitability of the ordinary activities of the group,
adjusted with the items considered by the
management to not be part of the underlying
performance.
Reason: Management considers REBIT as an
improved performance indicator for the group
allowing
year-on-year
comparison
the
profitability, as cleaned up with transactions not
considered part of the underlying performance.
Net financial debt
Definition: The net financial debt measures the
overall debt situation of IBA.
Reason: Net financial debt provides an
indication of the overall financial position
strength of the Group and measures IBA’s cash
position.
(EUR 000)
EBIT = Segment result (Note 4)
4 962
5 092
Other operating expenses (+)
6 088
3 525
Other operating income (-)
-2 200
REBIT
11 050
6 417
Depreciation and impairment of intangible and tangible assets (+)
10 711
11 166
Write-offs on receivables and inventory (+/-)
1 725
REBITDA
21 571
19 308
(EUR 000)
Long-term borrowings and lease liabilities (+)
31 458
29 010
Short-term borrowings and lease liabilities (+)
9 409
12 573
Cash and cash equivalents (-)
-158 366
-109 306
Net financial debt
-117 499
-67 723
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Auditor’s report on the consolidated
financial statement
PwC Bedrijfsrevisoren BV - PwC Reviseurs d'Entreprises SRL - Financial Assurance Services
Maatschappelijke zetel/Sige social: Culliganlaan 5, B-1831 Diegem
T: +32 (0)2 710 4211, F: +32 (0)2 710 4299, www.pwc.com
BTW/TVA BE 0429.501.944 / RPR Brussel - RPM Bruxelles / ING BE43 3101 3811 9501 - BIC BBRUBEBB /
BELFIUS BE92 0689 0408 8123 - BIC GKCC BEBB
STATUTORY AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF ION
BEAM APPLICATION SA ON THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
31 DECEMBER 2023
We present to you our statutory auditor’s report in the context of our statutory audit of the consolidated
accounts of Ion Beam Application SA (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (jointly “the Group”). This
report includes our report on the consolidated accounts, as well as the other legal and regulatory
requirements. This forms part of an integrated whole and is indivisible.
We have been appointed as statutory auditor by the general meeting dated 10 July 2023, following the
proposal formulated by the board of directors and following the recommendation by the audit
committee and the proposal formulated by the works’ council. Our mandate will expire on the date of
the general meeting which will deliberate on the annual accounts for the year ended 31 December
We have performed the statutory audit of the Group’s consolidated accounts for one financial
year.
Report on the consolidated accounts
Unqualified opinion
We have performed the statutory audit of the Group’s consolidated accounts, which comprise the
statement of consolidated financial position as at 31 December 2023, the consolidated income
statement, the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of
changes in equity and the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended, and notes to the
consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other
explanatory information, and which is characterised by a consolidated statement of financial position
total of EUR 597.528 thousands and a loss for the period of EUR 9.110 thousands.
In our opinion, the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view of the Group’s net equity and
consolidated financial position as at 31 December 2023, and of its consolidated financial performance
and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and with the legal and regulatory
requirements applicable in Belgium.
Basis for unqualified opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) as applicable in
Belgium. Furthermore, we have applied the International Standards on Auditing as approved by the
IAASB which are applicable to the year-end and which are not yet approved at the national level. Our
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Statutory auditor’s responsibilities
for the audit of the consolidated accounts” section of our report. We have fulfilled our ethical
responsibilities in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the
consolidated accounts in Belgium, including the requirements related to independence.
We have obtained from the board of directors and Company officials the explanations and information
necessary for performing our audit.
2 of 6
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our opinion.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in
our audit of the consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the consolidated accounts as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and
we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue recognition on long-term contracts
Description of the Key Audit Matter
As described in Note 4.3 regarding revenue recognition, the Group applies the percentage of
completion method to determine revenue recognition during the execution of a project. This
percentage is determined by comparing the costs incurred to the total expected cost of the project.
Evaluating this data requires judgment, which involves regular estimates of future costs associated
with ongoing projects, excluding certain direct costs not related to project progress, and analyzing
additional billing in case of variations. The Group's management relies on the knowledge of project
managers, the granularity of its internal control system, and the experience gained from completed
projects.
We considered this matter to be a key audit matter due to the significance of the balances in the
financial statements and the level of judgment involved in important assumptions.
How our Audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
We evaluated the design and implementation of internal controls related to revenue recognition
for this type of contracts, including the estimation of costs incurred and the review of sales
contracts.
For a sample of projects, we obtained the contracts and validated the revenue characteristic
data by reconciling them to the specific accounting module for project management. Based on
the planned billing schedule, bank statements related to payments received during the fiscal
year were requested and obtained through sampling.
For the same sample, we also validated the estimated total costs by reconciling them to the
tracking files and had discussions with project managers.
We verified the proper allocation of costs incurred through a sample of approved invoices and
timesheets to ensure that these costs are properly attributable to the project.
We checked the correct application and consistency of the percentage of completion method as
described in the evaluation rules.
We evaluated the appropriateness and completeness of the information presented in Note 4.3
in accordance with IFRS 15.
3 of 6
Based on our audit procedures, we believe that management's estimates used for revenue recognition
are based on reasonable assumptions. The accounting policies applied are compliant in all material
respects with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Other matter
The consolidated accounts of Ion Beam Application SA for the fiscal year ended on December 31,
2022, have been audited by another auditor who expressed an unqualified opinion on these
consolidated accounts in their report dated April 28, 2023.
Responsibilities of the board of directors for the preparation of the consolidated accounts
The board of directors is responsible for the preparation of consolidated accounts that give a true and
fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European
Union and with the legal and regulatory requirements applicable in Belgium, and for such internal
control as the board of directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated
accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated accounts, the board of directors is responsible for assessing the Group’s
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the board of directors either intends to liquidate
the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Statutory auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated accounts
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated accounts as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users
taken on the basis of these consolidated accounts.
In performing our audit, we comply with the legal, regulatory and normative framework applicable to
the audit of the consolidated accounts in Belgium. A statutory audit does not provide any assurance as
to the Group’s future viability nor as to the efficiency or effectiveness of the board of directors’ current
or future business management at Group level. Our responsibilities in respect of the use of the going
concern basis of accounting by the board of directors are described below.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated accounts, whether
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the
override of internal control;
4 of 6
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control;
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by the board of directors;
Conclude on the appropriateness of the board of directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue
as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
attention in our statutory auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated accounts
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our statutory auditor’s report. However, future events
or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern;
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated accounts, including
the disclosures, and whether the consolidated accounts represent the underlying transactions
and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation;
Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the
entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated
financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the
Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the audit committee regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control
that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the audit committee with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the audit committee, we determine those matters that were of
most significance in the audit of the consolidated accounts of the current period and are therefore the
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter.
5 of 6
Other legal and regulatory requirements
Responsibilities of the board of directors
The board of directors is responsible for the preparation and the content of the directors’ report on the
consolidated accounts, the separate report on non-financial information and the other information
included in the annual report on the consolidated accounts.
Statutory auditor’s responsibilities
In the context of our engagement and in accordance with the Belgian standard which is
complementary to the International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) as applicable in Belgium, our
responsibility is to verify, in all material respects, the directors’ report on the consolidated accounts,
the separate report on non-financial information and the other information included in the annual report
on the consolidated accounts and to report on these matters.
Aspects related to the directors’ report on the consolidated accounts and to the other
information included in the annual report on the consolidated accounts
In our opinion, after having performed specific procedures in relation to the directors’ report on the
consolidated accounts, this directors’ report is consistent with the consolidated accounts for the year
under audit and is prepared in accordance with article 3:32 of the Companies' and Associations' Code.
In the context of our audit of the consolidated accounts, we are also responsible for considering, in
particular based on the knowledge acquired resulting from the audit, whether the directors’ report on
the consolidated accounts and the other information included in the annual report on the consolidated
accounts, containing IBA world leader, Our values, IBA in 2023 at a glance, Message from Olivier
Legrain, Patient care what makes our heart beat and A committed company is materially misstated or
contains information which is inadequately disclosed or otherwise misleading. In light of the
procedures we have performed, there are no material misstatements we have to report to you.
The non-financial information required by virtue of article 3:32, 2 of the Companies' and Associations'
Code is included in the directors’ report on the consolidated accounts. The Company has prepared the
non-financial information, based on Global Reporting Initiatives (here under GRI ). However, in
accordance with article 3:80, 1, 5 of the Companies' and Associations' Code, we do not express an
opinion as to whether the non-financial information has been prepared in accordance with the GRI as
disclosed in the directors’ report on the consolidated accounts.
Statement related to independence
Our registered audit firm and our network did not provide services which are incompatible with the
statutory audit of the consolidated accounts, and our registered audit firm remained independent
of the Group in the course of our mandate.
The fees for additional services which are compatible with the statutory audit of the consolidated
accounts referred to in article 3:65 of the Companies' and Associations' Code are correctly
disclosed and itemized in the notes to the consolidated accounts.
6 of 6
European Uniform Electronic Format (ESEF)
We have also verified, in accordance with the draft standard on the verification of the compliance of
the financial statements with the European Uniform Electronic Format (hereinafter “ESEF”), the
compliance of the ESEF format with the regulatory technical standards established by the European
Delegate Regulation No. 2019/815 of 17 December 2018 (hereinafter: “Delegated Regulation”).
The board of directors is responsible for the preparation, in accordance with ESEF requirements, of
the consolidated financial statements in the form of an electronic file in ESEF format (hereinafter
“digital consolidated financial statements”) included in the annual financial report.
Our responsibility is to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence to conclude that the format [and marking
language] of the digital consolidated financial statements comply in all material respects with the
ESEF requirements under the Delegated Regulation.
Based on our procedures performed, we believe that the format of and marking of information in the
digital consolidated financial statements included in the annual financial report of Ion Beam Application
per 31 December 2023 comply in all material respects with the ESEF requirements under the
Delegated Regulation.
Other statements
This report is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee referred to in article 11
of the Regulation (EU) N 537/2014.
Diegem, 25 April 2024
The statutory auditor
PwC Reviseurs d'Entreprises SRL
Represented by
Romain Seffer*
Rviseur d'entreprises
*Acting on behalf of Romain Seffer SRL
IBA – Annual Report 2021

Ion Beam Applications SA, abbreviated IBA SA.
Following a resolution of the Extraordinary
General Meeting of shareholders of the
Company held on June 14, 2023 article 1 of the
bylaws has been amended and now reads as
follows:
“Article 1:
The Company takes the form of a public limited
company. The name of the Company is “Ion
Beam Applications” and, in short, “IBA”. "
Chemin du Cyclotron, 3; B-1348 Louvain-la-
Neuve,
Belgium;
enterprise
number
VAT
BE0428.750.985, Register of Legal Entities
(RLE) of the Walloon Brabant.
DATE, FORM AND PERIOD OF INCORPORATION
IBA was incorporated for an indefinite period on
March 28, 1986 as a limited liability company
(socit anonyme) under Belgian law. IBA is a
listed company in the meaning of section 1:11 of
the Belgian Companies & Associations Code.
CORPORATE PURPOSE (ARTICLE 3 OF THE
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION)
The purpose of the Company is to engage in
research and development and to acquire
intellectual property rights with a view to the
operation, manufacturing, and marketing of
applications and equipment in the field of applied
physics. It may carry out financial, commercial
and industrial transactions, and all transactions
involving movable or immovable property,
relating directly or indirectly to its corporate
purpose. It may acquire an interest, by
contribution, merger, purchase of shares, or any
other means, in companies, partnerships, or
corporations
whose
purpose
similar,
comparable,
related,
useful
the
achievement of its corporate purpose in whole or
in part.
IBA – Rapport annuel 2023

In addition, following a resolution of the
Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders
of the Company held on March 10, 2020, article
3 of the Articles of association has been
amended to add the following two paragraphs:
“The Company's objectives include having,
in the course of its activities, a significant
positive impact on all of its stakeholders,
notably patients, shareholders, employees,
customers, society and the planet.”
“The Company is managed taking into
account the interests of these stakeholders,
respecting living beings and present and
future generations, and reducing as much
as possible negative environmental and
societal impacts.”
The Company’s statutory and consolidated
statements are filed with the National Bank of
Belgium. Copies of the Company’s consolidated
articles of incorporation, its annual and semi-
annual reports, and all other shareholder
documentation
may
obtained
the
Company’s website (www.iba-worldwide.com)
or by shareholder’s request to the Company’s
registered office.
CAPITAL
As of December 31, 2023, IBA’s share capital
amounted to EUR 42.502.318,54 and was
represented by 30 282 218 fully paid-up shares
with no face value.
In June 2014, the Company issued 250 000
stock options for the Group management (the
“2014 Plan”). They allow the beneficiary to
purchase a new share at EUR 11.52 following
certain procedures during specific periods, i.e.
between January 1, 2019 and June 30, 2024.
As of December 31, 2018, there were 178 500
outstanding stock options of this 2014 Plan.
In 2019, 11 392 of these stock options were
exercised (more specifically on December 6,
2019).
As of December 31, 2019, there were 167 608
outstanding stock options of this 2014 Plan.
As of December 31, 2020, there were 163 608
outstanding stock options of this 2014 Plan.
In December 2015, the Company issued 50 000
stock options for the Group management (the
“2015 Plan”). They allow the beneficiary to
purchase a new share at EUR 31.84 following
certain procedures between January 1, 2019
and June 30, 2024.
IBA decided on August 26, 2015 to render the
current SOPs exercisable on a continued period
(outside of anti-insider dealing blackout periods
and outside of any additional technical black out
period) as from October 1st, 2015.
All stock options may also be exercised in the
event of a takeover bid on IBA or of an increase
of shareholders’ equity with preemptive rights.
In 2020, none of these stock options were
exercised.
As of December 31, 2020, there were 20.000
outstanding stock options of this 2015 Plan.
In June 2020, the Company issued 357 000
stock options for the Group management. They
allow the beneficiary to purchase a new share at
7,54 EUR following certain procedures from
January 02, 2024.
IBA decided on May 28, 2020 to render the
current SOPs exercisable on a continued period
(outside of anti-insider dealing blackout periods
and outside of any additional technical black out
period) as from January 02, 2024.
In 2021, IBA issued a long-term incentive in the
form of a stock option plan (SOP2021) on IBA
shares. It was offered on January 25, 2021 with
an exercise price of €13.39 (i.e. the average
closing price of the previous 30 days). This plan
will vest on January 1, 2025 and the options will
expire on December 31, 2026.
All stock options may also be exercised in the
event of a takeover bid on IBA or of an increase
of shareholders’ equity with preemptive rights.
On 9 November 2022, it was noted that 63,500
shares were subscribed by exercising 63. 500
warrants offered for subscription by decision of
27 June 2014 taken in execution of the
IBA – Rapport annuel 2023

authorisation to increase the capital granted to
the Board of Directors by the Extraordinary
General Meeting of 12 June 2013, at the price of
€ 11.52 per share, i.e. at the accounting par of €
4035 corresponding to the accounting par
applicable at the time of the issue of the warrants
plus an issue premium of € 10.1165, which
resulted in a correlative increase in the capital of
€ 89,122.25 from € 42,413,196.29 to €
42,502,318.54 and the creation of 63,500 new
shares.
As of December 31, 2023, there were 1.110.231
outstanding stock options.
As of December 31, 2023, the Company had
authorization to increase the Company’s share
capital, within the limits, terms and conditions set
out by the law and the articles of association of
the Company.
IBA is careful to patent all aspects of its
technology for which a patent provides a
commercial advantage.
In addition, the Company has maintained the
secrecy of a significant portion of its know-how
that is not patentable or for which the Company
believes
secrecy
more
effective
than
publication in a patent application. More
fundamentally, the Company believes that the
best way to protect itself from its competitors is
not only by patenting its inventions, but by
maintaining its technological lead.
IBA also licenses patents from third parties and
pays royalties to them.
IBA has licensing agreements involving various
aspects of its technology. Listing and explaining
the nature and terms of these licensing
agreements falls beyond the scope of this annual
report. These agreements cover, for example,
certain aspects of its particle accelerator
technology and a number of components of its
proton therapy equipment.
FIVE-YEAR CAPITAL HISTORY
OPERATION
Number of new
shares
Total number of shares
Variation (∆)
Amount
03/12/2019 Exercise of options under 2014 plan empl
11 392
30 133 920
15 988,67
42 294 182,30
31/12/2020 Exercise of options under 2014 plan empl
30 133 920
42 294 182,30
31/12/2021 Exercise of options under 2014 plan empl
30 218 718 119 014
42 413 196,00
31/12/2022 Exercice of options under 2014 plan empl
63 500 30 282 218 89122,5
502.318,54
31/12/2023 Exercice of options under 2014 plan empl
0 30 282 218 89122,5
502.318,54
IBA – Rapport annuel 2023

The stock market and the shareholders
IBA stock’
IBA stock is listed on the Euronext Brussels
continuous market (Compartment B since
January 17, 2013). It was introduced on the
Stock Exchange on June 22, 1998 at a price of
EUR 11.90 (adjusted for a 5 to 1 split in June
1999).
IBA stock closed at EUR 11.54 on December 31,

The total number of outstanding stock options as
of December 31, 2023 amounts to 1.110.231.
There are no convertible bonds or bonds with
warrants outstanding as of 31 December 2023.
Situation at
31-Dec-22
31-Dec-23
Denominator
30 282 218
30 282 218
Entity
Number of
shares
Number of
shares
IBA SA
1 110 781
3,67%
1 100 781
3,64%
Sub-total
1 110 781
3,67%
1 100 781
3,64%
UCL
426 885
1,41%
426 885
1,41%
Sopartec SA
180 000
0,59%
180 000
0,59%
Sub-total
606 885
2,00%
606 885
2,00%
Sustainable Anchorage SRL
6 204 668
20,49%
6 204 668
20,49%
IBA Investment SCRL
51 973
0,17%
51 973
0,17%
Management Anchorage
348 530
1,15%
348 530
1,15%
SRIW SA
715 491
2,36%
715 491
2,36%
SFPI SA
58 200
0,19%
58 200
0,19%
Belfius Insurance SA
1 189 196
3,93%
1 189 196
3,93%
Institut des Radiolments FUP
1 423 271
4,70%
1 423 271
4,70%
BNP Paris
528 425
1,75%
528 425
1,75%
Paladin Asset Mgmt
768 765
2,54%
768 765
2,54%
IBA – Rapport annuel 2023

BlackRock, Inc.
407 194
1,34%
407 194
1,34%
Norges Bank Investment
Management
1 133 108
3,74%
1 133 108
3,74%
Kempen Capital Management NV
875 388
2,89%
875 388
2,89%
Sub-total
13 704 209
45,25%
13 704 209
45,25%
Total
15 421 875
50,93%
15 411 875
50,89%
Public
14 860 343
49,07%
14 870 343
49,11%
Grand Total
30 282 218
100%
30 282 218
100%
SHAREHOLDERS’ SCHEDULE
Business Update Q1 2023 21 March 2024
2023 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 12 June 2024
Half year Results 29 August 2024
Business Update Q3 2023 21 November 2024
https://live.euronext.com/en/product/equities/BE0003766806-XBRU#chart
IBA – Annual Report 2023

IBA has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period 1
January 2023 to 31 December 2023 in accordance with the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 used
GRI 1: Foundation v2021
Ref
Disclosure
Cross reference, URL and/or information
GRI 2: GENERAL DISCLOSURES v2021
The organization and its reporting practices
Organizational details
p182 AR2023 General information
p4 AR2023 IBA in 2023 at a glance
p45 AR2023 Management report / highlights of the year
p172 AR2023 IFRS consolidated financial / notes / list of subsidiaries
Entities included in the organization’s
sustainability reporting
p172 AR2023 IFRS consolidated financial / notes / list of subsidiaries
Reporting period, frequency and contact
point
period 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023, yearly
p196 AR2023 IBA contact
Restatements of information
p114 AR2023 IFRS consolidated financial / notes to consolidated financial
statements
p192 AR2023 GRI appendix 305-1 / GHG emissions within organisation
p193 AR2023 GRI appendix 305-3 / GHG emissions outside the organisation
External assurance
p175 AR2023 Auditor’s report
p191 AR2023 GRI appendix 2-5 / external assurance
Activities and workers
Activities, value chain and other business
relationships
p7 AR2023 Patient care, what makes our heart beat
p39 AR2023 A committed company / society / supply chain
p47 AR2023 Management report / review of IBA activity sectors
p102 AR2023 Management report / significant acquisitions and divestments in 2023
p108 AR2023 IFRS consolidated financial
Employees
p31 AR2023 A committed company
p66 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / diversity,
equity and inclusion policy
p80 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct
p191 AR2023 GRI appendix 2-7 / information on employees and other workers
Workers who are not employees
At 31.12.2023, IBA called on 136 external contractors
Governance
Governance structure and composition
p58 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement
Nomination and selection of the highest
governance body
p58 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement
Chair of the highest governance body
p58 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement
Role of the highest governance body in
overseeing the management of impacts
p58 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement
Delegation of responsibility for managing
impacts
p58 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement
Role of the highest governance body in
sustainability reporting
p65 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / sustainability
board meeting
Conflicts of interest
p57 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / conflict of
interest
Communication of critical concerns
p51 AR2023 Management report / principal risks and uncertainties faced by the
company
p80 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct
IBA – Annual Report 2023

p191 AR2023 GRI appendix 2-16 / key Impacts, risks and opportunities
p121 AR2023 IFRS consolidated financial / notes to consolidated financial
statements / climate related matters
Collective knowledge of the highest
governance body
p58 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement
Evaluation of the performance of the highest
governance body
p58 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement
Remuneration policies
p70 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / remuneration
report
Process to determine remuneration
p70 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / remuneration
report
Annual total compensation ratio
p70 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / remuneration
report
p81 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct / non-financial indicators and results
Strategy, policies and practices
Statement on sustainable development
strategy
p1 AR2023 IBA World leader
p5 AR2023 Message from Olivier Legrain
p87 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct / B Corp
p87 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct / sustainability progress
p94 AR2023 Management report / non-financial activities report
Policy commitments
p80 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct
Embedding policy commitments
p51 AR2023 Management report / principal risks and uncertainties faced by the
company
p80 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct
Processes to remediate negative impacts
p51 AR2023 Management report / principal risks and uncertainties faced by the
company
p80 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct
p121 AR2023 IFRS consolidated financial / notes to consolidated financial
statements / climate related matters
Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising
concerns
p80 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct
Compliance with laws and regulations
p80 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct
p88 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct / taxonomy
Membership associations
p191 AR2023 GRI appendix 2-28 / membership of associations
Stakeholder engagement
Approach to stakeholder engagement
p1 AR2023 IBA World leader
p34 AR2023 A committed company / employees
p38 AR2023 A committed company / society
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
p43 AR2023 A committed company / materiality
Collective bargaining agreements
p34 AR2023 A committed company / employees
Ref
Disclosure
Cross reference, URL and/or information
GRI 3: MATERIAL TOPIC v2021
Process to determine material topics
p7 AR2023 Patient care, what makes our heart beat
p43 AR2023 A committed company / materiality
List of material topics
p43 AR2023 A committed company / materiality
Management of material topics
p1 AR2023 IBA World leader
p5 AR2023 Message from Olivier Legrain
p34 AR2023 A committed company / employees
p38 AR2023 A committed company / society
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
p191 AR2023 GRI appendix 2-28 / membership of associations
Ref
Disclosure
Cross reference, URL and/or information
GRI 200 ECONOMIC TOPIC DISCLOSURES
Significant indirect economic impacts
p80 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct / policy and targets
p7 AR2023 Patient care, what makes our heart beat
Confirmed incidents of corruptions and
actions taken
p51 AR2023 Management report / principal risks and uncertainties faced by the
company
GRI 2016
p45 AR2023 Management report / highlights of the year
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Profitability GRI 2016: 201 - Economic
performance
p108 AR2023 IFRS consolidated financial
GRI 2016
Research and development
p7 AR2023 Patient care, what makes our heart beat
p45 AR2023 Management report / highlights of the year
Ref
Disclosure
Cross reference, URL and/or information
GRI 204 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES v2016
Proportion of spending on local suppliers
p191 AR2023 GRI appendix 204-1 / proportion of spending on local suppliers
Ref
Disclosure
Cross reference, URL and/or information
GRI 302 ENERGY v2016
Management of material topics
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
p84 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct / environmental matters
Energy consumption within the organization
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
p192 AR2023 GRI appendix 302-1 / energy consumption within organisation
Energy consumption outside of the
organization
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
p193 AR2023 GRI appendix 305-3 / GHG emissions outside the organisation
GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS v2018
Management of material topics
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
p84 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct / environmental matters
Interactions with water as a shared resource
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
p193 AR2023 GRI appendix 303-3 / water withdrawal
Water withdrawal
p193 AR2023 GRI appendix 303-3 / water withdrawal
GRI 304 BIODIVERSITY v2016
Management of material topics
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
p84 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct / environmental matters
Habitats protected or restored
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
GRI 305 EMISSIONS v2016
Management of material topics
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
p84 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct / environmental matters
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
p192 AR2023 GRI appendix 305-1 / GHG emissions within organisation
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG
emissions
p192 AR2023 GRI appendix 305-1 / GHG emissions within organisation
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG
emissions
p193 AR2023 GRI appendix 305-3 / GHG emissions outside the organisation
GHG emissions intensity
p192 AR2023 GRI appendix 305-1 / GHG emissions within organisation
Reduction of GHG emissions
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
p192 AR2023 GRI appendix 305-1 / GHG emissions within organisation
GRI 306 WASTE v2020
Management of material topics
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
Waste generation and significant waste-
related impacts
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
Management of significant waste-related
impacts
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
p9 AR2023 Patient care, what makes our heart beat / industrial solutions
p193 AR2023 GRI appendix 306-2 / management of significant waste related
impacts
Waste generated
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
p194 AR2023 GRI appendix 306-3 / waste generated
Waste diverted from disposal
p40 AR2023 A committed company / planet
p80 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct
Waste directed to disposal
p194 AR2023 GRI appendix 306-3 / waste generated
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Ref
Disclosure
Cross reference, URL and/or information
GRI 401 EMPLOYEMENT v2016
Management of material topics
p34 AR2023 A committed company / employees
New employee hires and employee
turnover
p191 AR2023 GRI appendix 2-7 / information on employees and other workers
GRI 403 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY v2016
Management of material topics
p34 AR2023 A committed company / employees
Occupational health and safety management
system
p194 AR2023 GRI appendix 403-9 / employeen health and safety
p34 AR2023 A committed company / employees
Promotion of worker health
p34 AR2023 A committed company / employees
Work-related injuries
p194 AR2023 GRI appendix 403-9 / employeen health and safety
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY v2016
Management of material topics
p34 AR2023 A committed company / employees
Diversity of governance bodies and
employees
p66 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / diversity,
equity and inclusion policy
p194 AR2023 GRI appendix 405-1 / diversity of employees
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of
women to men
p80 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct
GRI 414 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT v2016
Management of material topics
p39 AR2023 A committed company / society / supply chain
New suppliers that were screened
using social criteria
p195 AR2023 GRI appendix 414-1 / suppliers code of business conduct
p195 AR2023 GRI appendix 414-1 / supplier ESG screening method
GRI 416 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY v2016
Management of material topics
p34 AR2023 A committed company / employees
Comfort, quality and safety of our medical
and industrial solutions GRI 2016: 416 -
Customer health and safety: Incidents of
non-compliance concerning the health and
safety impacts of products and services.
p7 AR2023 Patient care, what makes our heart beat
p45 AR2023 Management report / highlights of the year
p195 AR2023 GRI appendix 416-2 / comfort, quality, safety of our solutions
GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY v2016
Management of material topics
p80 AR2023 Management report / corporate governance statement / codes of
conduct
Substantiated complaints concerning
breaches of customer privacy and losses of
customer data
p195 AR2023 GRI appendix 418-1 / substantiated complaints concerning breaches
of customer privacy and losses of customer data
GRI OTHER DISCLOSURES v2016
GRI 2016
Affordability and accessibility of our solutions
p7 AR2023 Patient care, what makes our heart beat
p45 AR2023 Management report / highlights of the year
GRI 2016
Awareness of proton therapy and thought
leadership
p7 AR2023 Patient care, what makes our heart beat
GRI 2016
Satisfaction of customer: Customer's voice
p7 AR2023 Patient care, what makes our heart beat
IBA – Annual Report 2023

GRI disclosure additional information as referred in the GRI Content
Index
2-5 External assurance
To date, IBA has no ambition to seek external assurance for its sustainability report. This decision will be re-evaluated each year as our maturity
evolves in terms of sustainable development reporting.
Unit
2-7 Information on employees and other workers
Employment Structure
Group
618
820
986
Asia
12%
12%
12%
EMEA
72%
70%
71%
16%
18%
17%
Part-time employees
Temporary staff
2-16 Key impacts, risks and opportunities
An internal procedure is in place to document the responsibilities and requirements for identifying environmental, health and safety hazards of the
organization’s activities, products or services, and for evaluating and controlling the associated risks and impacts. This management tool is used to
assess environmental, health and safety risks and impacts. It also records the actions and control measures deployed by our various entities in the
context of their continuous improvement process.
Unit
2-28 Membership of associations
IBA is a certified B Corp since 2021
B Corp score1
97+
106+
https://www.bcorporation.net/en-us/find-a-b-corp/company/i-b-a-group-ion-beam-applications-group
1We are using the B Impact Assessment (BIA) from the B Corp framework as a practical tool to gauge and report on progress against our
sustainability objectives. We are a certified B Corp since 2021, with a verified B Corp score of 90pts. The intermediate scores of 97+pts and 106+pts
were measured proforma by an independent 3rd party, using the said B Impact Assessment (BIA), pending the formal recertification expected april

IBA is member of ASTRO (corporate membership) and ESTRO (gold membership), two major associations in the field of radiotherapy, in the United
States and Europe. IBA is also a corporate member of the EANM, European Association of Nuclear Medicine, NAPT, an independent nonprofit
organization to educate and increase awareness about the clinical benefits of proton therapy, iiA Global, an organization which aims to support the
global irradiation industry and scientific community, the Alliance for Protontherapy, aiming to increase patient access to proton therapy for cancer
patients by educating insurers, policymakers, employers, and the general public,and COCIR, the European Trade Association representing the
medical imaging, radiotherapy, health ICT and electromedical industries.
IBA is an active member of the Belgian association The Shift, leading the Belgian sustainable development network. IBA develops synergies in both
Belgium and the United States and collaborates with numerous associations that aim to promote employment, education and awareness in relation to
proton therapy.
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers
We define local suppliers as located in the surrounding vicinities of our plants. Expenses spent with suppliers local to the company's headquarters or
relevant facilities exceeds 60% of spent, with the expenses spent with independent local suppliers amounting exceeds 30%.
Unit
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
Energy
055
373
690
Energy - intensity per million Eur revenues
GJ / million Eur
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Unit
305-1 GHG emissions within the organization
Organization direct and indirect GHG emissions IBA Group1 (Scope 1-2-32)
CO2 equivalent emissions, incl. CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3
t CO2eq
013
079
623
CO2 equivalent emissions - intensity per FTE
t CO2eq / FTE
3,8
5,2
5,6
CO2 equivalent emissions - intensity per million Eur revenues
t CO2eq /
million Eur
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions
t CO2eq
128
244
278
Gross Scope 2 GHG emissions
t CO2eq
Gross Scope 1+2 GHG emissions
t CO2eq
799
964
964
Carbon farming ISO certificates purchased from Soil Capital5 (1 certificate = 1 t CO2eq)
t CO2eq
000
700
000
Carbon shadow pricing4
eur / t CO2eq
CDP Score3
rank
Emissions (absolute and intensity) continues to increase in the context of post-covid situation, due to the plane travel part.
- Plane related emissions increased impacted by end of Covid pandemic, though remaining 21% lower than prepandemic year 2019 per FTE (6604t
CO2eq), thanks to alternative to flight travel such remote conferencing, remote maintenance, and more intense use of local resources.
- The impact of the car fleet decreases slightly compared to 2022, and drops 48% lower than prepandemic year 2019 per FTE (2268t CO2eq), thanks
to a continuous shift towards more efficient cars (hybrid/elec) within the fleet.
In 2023, IBA continued its policy of encouraging cleaner mobility alternatives:
- New green car policy enforcing electric vehicles only in the fleet
- 100% reimbursement of public transportation
- Bike commuting allowance at 0.37€/km. Bike leasing policy, with more than 274 bikes in lease by 31st December 2023
85+% of our electricity is from renewable sources, either purchased through renewable energy credits, or autoproduced through photovoltaic
installation at our facilities. Related emissions are however currently included in the above figures based on average national energy mix.
- Launch of a 500kWc solar carport installation, equipped with 50 additional EV chargers.
Targets/goals: we have set ourselves the goal of reducing our operations’ net GHG emissions to zero by 2030. We have set ourselves the goal of
reducing our energy intensity by 50% below 2020 levels by 2030.
1 The 2023 reporting is based upon updated CO2 emissions factors per country in accordance to IEA 2023 guidelines. For consistency, same updated
emission factors have been applied to the reporting of previous years based on the same guidelines.
2Scope 3: included: car and heating fuel production, plane, rail and waste handling
3CDP Score related to disclosure year (eg B relates to disclosure year 2023 and is based on 2022 data, per CDP rules)
4An internal carbon shadow pricing has been set for the first time in 2022 at 40 eur/t, with a recommendation at 80 eur/t as of 2024.
5For the fourth consecutive year, IBA is supporting European farmers in their transition to regenerative agriculture, thereby contributing to the Global
Net Zero and financing resilience of local food systems. Through its partnership with Soil Capital, IBA supports farmers for their integration of legumes
in their rotation, a crop which through its ability to fix atmospheric nitrogen, plays an essential role in emissions reduction, soil fertilization and yield
preservation. This year, it's 21 farmers cultivating 1,128 ha of legumes and having reduced or sequestered 2,000T of CO2e who have been supported
by IBA
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Unit
305-3 GHG emissions outside of the organization
Installed base indirect greenhouse gas emissions GHG (Scope 31)
CO2 equivalent emissions, incl. CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF32
t CO2eq
624
230
317
thereof ProtonTherapy
t CO2eq
026
619
620
thereof ProtonTherapy per treated patient
t CO2eq /
patient
3,5
3,6
3,5
The emission intensity of PT installed base (tCO2eq/ patient (‘functional unit’)) remains stable in 2023, as the increased number of treated patients
balances the additional consumption of the newly installed equipments
1Scope 3: includes most impacting products, supported by a maintenance contract (in case of Dynamitrons, this amounts to 7% of the installed base)
2The 2023 reporting is based upon updated CO2 emissions factors per country in accordance to IEA emissions factors 2023. For consistency, same
updated emission factors have been applied to the reporting of previous years based on the same guidelines
Unit
303-3 Water withdrawal
Water consumption IBA Group
Amount of water used for the organization operations
525
838
258
Amount of water used for the organization operations - intensity per FTE
m / FTE
5,4
5,0
4,4
Amount of water used for the organization operations - intensity per million Eur
revenues
m / million Eur
Global water withdrawal intensity decreased, showing a continuous reduction thanks mainly to homeworking - showing alignment with the target we
set ourselves.
Targets/goals: we have set ourselves the goal of reducing our water withdrawal intensity by 35% below 2020 levels by 2025.
306-2 Management of significant waste related impacts
Substituting inputs that have hazardous characteristics with inputs that are non-hazardous:
IBA Industrial Solutions has developed a new portfolio of services and end-to-end solutions powered by the Rhodotron particle accelerator. These
innovative electrical solutions allow in-house customers or contract sterilizers to sterilize medical devices either by E-beam in boxes or X-ray in
pallets, or both. They offer an readily available and ecological alternative to classical sterilisation processes, by eliminating the toxic waste linked to
chemical inputs such as ethylene oxide gas and nuclear materials such as cobalt 60. They avoid the associated pollutants and hazards.
IBA – Annual Report 2023

Unit
306-3 Waste generated
Waste and recycling IBA Group
Waste generated
Mixed (unsorted): ratio vs total
41%
39%
33%
Waste generated - intensity per FTE
t / FTE
0,1
0,1
0,1
Waste generated - intensity per million Eur revenues
t / million Eur
0,5
0,4
0,4
Hazardous waste
4,0
2,5
4,7
Hazardous waste - intensity per million Eur revenues
t / million Eur
0,01
0,01
0,01
Global generated waste intensity is stable, with share of unsorted waste progressively decreasing, with program in place internally and with our waste
management partner to increase awareness, improve process and source reduce the waste.
Targets/goals: we have set ourselves the goal of reducing our unsorted waste intensity by a factor of 3 (15%/yr) below 2018 levels by 2025. We have
set ourselves the goal of reducing our hazardous waste intensity by 10% below 2020 levels by 2025.
Unit
403-9 Employee health and safety
Lost time accident cases
Lost time accident frequency rate
# LTA/million
worked hours
Medical treatment cases
Total Recordable Incident Rate
# TRC/million
worked hours
Attrition
Unit
405-1 Diversity of employees
Nationalities – Group
Nationalities – Belgium
Group workforce under 30 years old
18%
18%
16%
Group workforce between 30-49 years old
62%
64%
64%
Group workforce 50 years old and older
19%
18%
20%
Group workforce gender (F/M)
26% / 74%
26% / 74%
26% / 74%
Asia workforce gender (F/M)
20% / 80%
21% / 79%
19% / 81%
EMEA workforce gender (F/M)
28% / 72%
28% / 72%
28% / 72%
AM workforce gender (F/M)
20% / 80%
20% / 80%
20% / 80%
in part time employees (F/M)
67% / 33%
65% / 35%
74% / 26%
IBA – Annual Report 2023

414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria
Suppliers Code of Business Conduct
Since 2022, the suppliers code of conduct is part of all contract templates related to sourcing activities of the IBA group, and, by entering into the
agreement, the vendor explicitly agrees to abide by its content.
Supplier ESG screening method
We have selected Ecovadis as service provider for our supply chain ESG screening
416-2 Comfort, quality, safety of our medical & industrial solutions
At IBA, we are constantly improving our products and quality management processes in order to offer the market complete, safe and efficient
solutions. We train our clients and help the medical community to provide users and patients with reliable and safe treatments. In order to raise the
quality of the product IBA delivers on the market we are ISO13485:2016, ISO9001:2015, MDSAP certified. There have been no material incidents of
non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of IBA’s products and services
Unit
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data
Breach of data privacy
iba-worldwide.com
Contact IBA
Corporate Communication
Tel.: +32 10 47 58 90
E-mail: communiation@iba-group.com
Ion Beam Applications, SA
Chemin du Cyclotron, 3
1348 Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium
Tel.: +32 10 47 58 11 - Fax: +32 10 47 58 10
RPM Nivelles - TVA: BE 428.750.985
E-mail: info-worldwide@iba-group.com
www.iba-worldwide.com
R.: IBA SA, chemin du Cyclotron, 3
1348 Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium
Design & Production: www.thecrew.be